Breaking News, Daily News and Videos - CNN.com Breaking News Toggle Search Watch Live TV U.S. Edition U.S. International Arabic Español Set edition preference Confirm Search News U.S. World Politics Tech Health Entertainment Living Travel Money Sports Watch Live TV Video CNNgo Latest News Must Watch Videos Digital Studios Watch Live TV TV CNNgo Schedule CNN Films Shows A-Z Faces of CNN Worldwide Watch Live TV Opinions Political Op-Eds Social Commentary iReport Watch Live TV More… Photos Longform Investigations CNN profiles A-Z CNN Leadership Somebody's Gotta Do It Parts Unknown Anderson Cooper 360 Style Lisa Ling Digital Shorts 2 Degrees CNN Heroes Impact Your World Watch Live TV Quick Links Photos Longform Investigations CNN profiles A-Z CNN Leadership This teenager is suing Obama Opinion: Lawsuit is 'kids saying you're not doing your job' 'Never have the stakes been so high' Why care? 2˚ quiz Gates' energy fund Acronym soup Top stories 5 m No bond for accused Planned Parenthood shooter 2 h Student threatened 'white devils' 4 h U.S., Russia differ on shootdown Fed ends 'too big to fail' lending 2 h Obama names new ISIS adviser 2 h Trump: 'I saw love in that room' Should Yahoo CEO be fired? Star born in Denver; goodbye Manning Killing of lawyer caught on video Cops: Child's body fed to pigs Staying healthy this season 10 winter health myths busted News U.S. World Politics Tech Health Entertainment Living Travel Money Sports Video CNNgo Latest News Must Watch Videos Digital Studios TV CNNgo Schedule CNN Films Shows A-Z Faces of CNN Worldwide Opinions Political Op-Eds Social Commentary iReport More… Photos Longform Investigations CNN profiles A-Z CNN Leadership U.S. Edition U.S. International Arabic Español Set edition preference Confirm © 2015 Cable News Network. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Terms of Use Privacy Policy AdChoices Advertise with us About us Work for us Help Transcripts License Footage CNN Newsource
UN Tells Obama to Stop Talking — He Doesn't Listen Here's the Biggest Thing to Worry About on Cyber Monday Gene Editing: Hope for New Cures or Scary Science? Get your morning update with FIRST READ delivered to your inbox every weekday. Trump: 'Love' Was in the Room During Meeting With Black Religious Leaders Christie Responds to Trump's Twitter Jab State Dept. Confirms Downed Russian Jet Entered Turkish Airspace What Does a Baseline Concussion Exam Test For? Kobe: 'Do I Want to Play Again or Don't I… the Reality is no' South Dakota Ghost Town on Sale for $250,000 Monday in Pictures: Beijing Smog and More Couple Drops $500K Check Into Salvation Army Kettle Cop in Laquan McDonald Death to Be Freed on Bail UN Tells Obama to Stop Talking — He Doesn't Listen Back in the U.S.S.R.? How 2015 Russia Is Like Soviet Era Americans Warned of 'Imminent Attack' in Kabul ISIS Sells Women 'for Just $10, or 10 Cigarettes' N. Korea-Linked Boats Carrying Corpses Floating Off Japan China Chokes on Smog as World Leaders Talk Climate Monday in Pictures: Beijing Smog and More Climate Talks: Distinguishing Paris from Copenhagen Christie: Parties in N.J. on 9/11 'Didn't Happen' Christie: Parties in N.J. on 9/11 'Didn't Happen' Candidates or the Media — Who's Telling the Truth? Donald Trump Touts Successful Meeting With Black Pastors Gene Editing: Hope for New Cures or Scary Science? UK Lawmakers Want Sugar Tax to Fight Obesity Costco Chicken Salad Sickens 19 With E Coli What Does a Baseline Concussion Exam Test For? Painful Chikungunya Virus Can be Worse Than Feared, Study Shows Autistic Brothers Excel in Southern University Marching Band Farm Recalls Produce Used in Costco Salad Linked to E. Coli AT&T Unlimited Data Plan Is Getting More Expensive Here's the Biggest Thing to Worry About on Cyber Monday Gene Editing: Hope for New Cures or Scary Science? You'll Need a Nintendo to Play This New Album Facebook Extending Parental Leave Worldwide to 4 Months Gene Editing: Hope for New Cures or Scary Science? Tech Billionaires Team Up to Push Clean Energy NASA's 'Star Trek' Tech Designed to Detect Alien Life Where Presidential Candidates Stand on Climate Change Scientists Watch Black Hole Have Leisurely Meal Kylie Jenner: I Like Caitlyn Jenner 'Better Than Bruce' Flight Attendant Accused of Attack on Marshals FTC Bans Phone Payments Favored by Fraudsters Cyber Monday is Trial by Fire for Many Retailers' Websites Fed OKs Curb to Its Emergency Lending Powers No Leaping in 'Twelve Days of Christmas' Prices 5 Cyber Monday Deals Worth Logging On For In Your 20s? It's Time to Get on a Treadmill Mystery Gold Coin Donors: 'It Made Us Feel Good to Give' Mystery Gold Coin Donors: 'It Made Us Feel Good to Give' 5 Cyber Monday Deals Worth Logging On For Here's the Biggest Thing to Worry About on Cyber Monday Christmas Tree Shopping? Here's What You Need to Know Christmas Tree Shopping? Here's What You Need to Know 'Insider Threat': Airport Security Gaps Highlighted in New Video 'Insider Threat': Airport Security Gaps Highlighted in New Video Judge Backs GM on Privileged Ignition Switch Docs Your Thanksgiving Travel Is About to Get More Intense Will ISIS Use Female Suicide Bombers? Could ISIS Strike the West With Chemical Weapons? New ISIS Magazine Offers Chilling Clues to Terror Group's Growth More Latinos Needed In Corporate Executive Positions: Report New Mexico: Community Groups Work to Raise Latino Graduation Rates Mexico: Beatles Fans Got Together to Set Record Colombia: Debate Grows Over Country's Draft Mexico: Beatles Fans Got Together to Set Record Cruz: We Shouldn't Jump to Conclusions on Colo. Gunman 'Voice' Of 'Jane the Virgin' Anthony Mendez Enjoying Success From Undocumented to Goldman Sachs Exec: An Amazing Journey Race Forward's Rinku Sen on Envisioning and Enacting Racial Justice #NotTheSame Campaign Aims to Challenge Asian-American Stereotypes Victims of Colorado Shooting Identified as Mom, Army Vet Supreme Court Blocks Vote Counting in Hawaii Election Off Color: Ali Wong 'Red, White, & Baltimore': Class and Justice in America Trump: 'Love' Was in the Room During Meeting With Black Religious Leaders Trial Starts for First Officer in Freddie Gray Case Commentary: Anita's Army: Rank and File Racism in the Power to Prosecute Commentary: Anita's Army: Rank and File Racism in the Power to Prosecute Kobe Bryant To Retire At the End of the NBA Season Autistic Brothers Walk Tall in Southern University Marching Band France Mourns '130 Voices ... Killed Forever' Freddie Gray Hearing: Police Officers' Statements at Issue 5-Day Meal Plan and  Who Should Be TIME's Person of the Year? News News News News News News Prime Minister David Cameron says he will call a one-day Commons debate and vote on Wednesday on extending UK air strikes into Syria. The International Monetary Fund announces that China's currency, the yuan, will join the fund's select group of international reserve currencies. The three victims in the shooting around a Planned Parenthood clinic in Colorado Springs have been identified and the alleged gunman appears in court. Jury selection has begun in trial of the first officer charged over the death of Freddie Gray. WBC heavyweight champion Deontay Wilder wants to unify the division by fighting new WBA, IBF & WBO champion Tyson Fury. Andy Murray says he does not talk to the Lawn Tennis Association about British tennis' future as "nothing ever gets done". England complete their UAE tour with a dramatic super-over win against Pakistan to seal a 3-0 Twenty20 series whitewash. There’s the idealised version for tourists… and the one that I got to see From a history of gems to a new account of the raid on Entebbe Air travel in the US ceased to be glamorous a long time ago. Today's passengers often have a list of... US President Barack Obama outlines a vision of the world, at the Paris 2015 climate conference, if efforts to halt global warming are not stepped up. Udemy, a platform for experts to share courses in any subject, has been accused not doing enough to... The final film in the Hunger Games series holds onto the top spot at the US and Canada box office,... Scientists set out this week to drill a hole into the Indian Ocean floor to try to get below the... The Brazilian health ministry confirms a link between a mosquito-borne virus from Africa, Zika... Paris climate talks: Why China is the country to watch By Carrie Gracie Copyright © 2015 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.

Abdelhamid Abaaoud is believed to have organized a string of attacks that made him the most talked-about — and, in jihadist circles, feted — terrorist since Osama bin Laden. The United States and Russia have been drawn together against ISIS by the Paris attacks, but disagreements between them remain. Many in the United States who are believed to have Islamic State ties have never visited Syria, and thwarting them is like trying to prevent a school shooting. By the time the U.S. withdrew from Iraq, it thought it had subdued the Islamic State. The group is now on a very different trajectory. Reporter Andrew Higgins describes the city after an “imminent and serious” terror threat. Most of the wounded and their families, and a large number of medical personnel, are receiving psychological support for emotional trauma. An analysis of the impact of terrorist attacks on travel and tourism suggests that the long-term effect is more muted than after a natural disaster. Despite efforts to limit any disruption to a two-week global climate conference in Paris, 174 people were taken into custody when demonstrators fought with the police. Parisians won’t admit that they go to the gym, let alone that they’re scared of terrorists. Candidates and outside groups are starting to feel comfortable running ads about the attacks, navigating a delicate line in politicizing a tragedy. Two weeks after terrorist attacks, Paris is preparing to host a global conference on climate change. Revisiting a half dozen movies that seem especially relevant to the work of thinking and understanding that lies ahead after the Nov. 13 attacks on Paris. The city wants to get past the lost tourism and uncertainties that followed the Nov. 13 attacks. But as candles burn low and bouquets wilt, a certain shock lingers. About 2,500 law enforcement officers kept watch over the parade in Manhattan amid heightened alert after the terrorist attacks in Paris. Security analysts say that since France has been locked down under a state of emergency since the Nov. 13 attacks, absorbing the extra burden may be easier. The nation is showing its patriotic fervor after the ISIS killings, from a jump in sales of French flags to a surge in enlistment applications. The French Parliament’s upper house, the Senate, voted 325 to 0 with 21 abstentions to prolong France’s airstrikes in Syria beyond early January. In a city where corner bistros are havens for neighbors and friends, the terrorist attacks in Paris hurt families related by blood and banter. Nohemi Gonzalez, 23, was an industrial design student at California State University, Long Beach. She was studying abroad in Paris when she was killed in the terrorist attacks on Nov. 13. Since Sept. 11, 2001, most of the attackers in the United States claiming or appearing to be motivated by extremist Islam were U.S.-born or naturalized citizens. None were refugees. Seven essays by Americans — expats, travelers and writers — trying to take the long view of Paris and pick up the pieces after the Nov. 13 attacks. Matthieu Mauduit lost his brother, Cédric, in the terrorist attack on the Bataclan on Nov. 13. Now he has an unconventional plan to honor his memory. The speech by President François Hollande of France after the attacks on Paris showed many parallels with George W. Bush’s speeches after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. When David, a 46-year-old nurse, tried to resuscitate a man hurt in the terror attacks in Paris, he didn’t realize immediately that the man was a bomber whose explosive belt had failed to detonate. Brussels was widely deserted and heavily patrolled for a second day on Sunday, as Belgium maintained the highest possible alert level. Security forces heavily patrolled Belgium’s capital on Saturday as the government warned of a “serious and imminent” terrorist threat. At least 130 people were killed Nov. 13. They included an architect, an American college student, an Algerian violinist and many, many music fans. Here are some of their stories. Life in Paris is slowly returning to normal, but people are still recovering from the terrorist attacks of Nov. 13. Here, four Parisians discuss the attacks and what has followed. The interior minister of Spain said Abdelhamid Abaaoud, the main suspect in the Paris attacks, had used social media to recruit Spanish women to join ISIS. Bernard Cazeneuve, France's Interior Minister, confirmed on Thursday that a leader of the Paris attacks, Abdelhamid Abaaoud, had been killed, and called for cooperation among European law enforcement agencies. Hasna Aitboulahcen, a cousin of the suspected architect of last week's Paris terror attacks, died not by becoming the first woman to blow herself up in a suicide vest on Western soil, as first suggested by the authorities — but by being killed in a fierce battle with the police. Manuel Valls, the prime minister of France, said the country should be wary of a biological or chemical attack and asked parliament to extend the state of emergency for three months. Most of the wounded and their families, and a large number of medical personnel, are receiving psychological support for emotional trauma. Despite efforts to limit any disruption to a two-week global climate conference in Paris, 174 people were taken into custody when demonstrators fought with the police. Candidates and outside groups are starting to feel comfortable running ads about the attacks, navigating a delicate line in politicizing a tragedy. The city wants to get past the lost tourism and uncertainties that followed the Nov. 13 attacks. But as candles burn low and bouquets wilt, a certain shock lingers. About 2,500 law enforcement officers kept watch over the parade in Manhattan amid heightened alert after the terrorist attacks in Paris. Security analysts say that since France has been locked down under a state of emergency since the Nov. 13 attacks, absorbing the extra burden may be easier. The nation is showing its patriotic fervor after the ISIS killings, from a jump in sales of French flags to a surge in enlistment applications. In a city where corner bistros are havens for neighbors and friends, the terrorist attacks in Paris hurt families related by blood and banter.


