Sport (UK) or sports (US) are all forms of usually competitive physical activity or games which,[1] through casual or organised participation, aim to use, maintain or improve physical ability and skills while providing entertainment to participants, and in some cases, spectators.[2] Usually the contest or game is between two sides, each attempting to exceed the other. Some sports allow a tie game; others provide tie-breaking methods, to ensure one winner and one loser. A number of such two-sided contests may be arranged in a tournament producing a champion. Many sports leagues make an annual champion by arranging games in a regular sports season, followed in some cases by playoffs. Hundreds of sports exist, from those between single contestants, through to those with hundreds of simultaneous participants, either in teams or competing as individuals. In certain sports such as racing, many contestants may compete, each against all with one winner. Sport is generally recognised as activities which are based in physical athleticism or physical dexterity, with the largest major competitions such as the Olympic Games admitting only sports meeting this definition,[3] and other organisations such as the Council of Europe using definitions precluding activities without a physical element from classification as sports.[2] However, a number of competitive, but non-physical, activities claim recognition as mind sports. The International Olympic Committee (through ARISF) recognises both chess and bridge as bona fide sports, and SportAccord, the international sports federation association, recognises five non-physical sports,[4] [5] although limits the number of mind games which can be admitted as sports.[1] Sports are usually governed by a set of rules or customs, which serve to ensure fair competition, and allow consistent adjudication of the winner. Winning can be determined by physical events such as scoring goals or crossing a line first. It can also be determined by judges who are scoring elements of the sporting performance, including objective or subjective measures such as technical performance or artistic impression. Records of performance are often kept, and for popular sports, this information may be widely announced or reported in sport news. Sport is also a major source of entertainment for non-participants, with spectator sport drawing large crowds to sport venues, and reaching wider audiences through broadcasting. Sports betting is in some cases severely regulated, and in some cases is central to the sport. According to A.T. Kearney, a consultancy, the global sporting industry is worth up to $620 billion as of 2013.[6] The world's most accessible and practised sport is running, while association football is its most popular spectator sport.[7] [8] "Sport" comes from the Old French desport meaning "leisure", with the oldest definition in English from around 1300 being "anything humans find amusing or entertaining".[9] Other meanings include gambling and events staged for the purpose of gambling; hunting; and games and diversions, including ones that require exercise.[10] Roget's defines the noun sport as an "activity engaged in for relaxation and amusement" with synonyms including diversion and recreation.[11] The singular term "sport" is used in most English dialects to describe the overall concept (e.g. "children taking part in sport"), with "sports" used to describe multiple activities (e.g. "football and rugby are the most popular sports in England"). American English uses "sports" for both terms. The precise definition of what separates a sport from other leisure activities varies between sources. The closest to an international agreement on a definition is provided by SportAccord, which is the association for all the largest international sports federations (including association football, athletics, cycling, tennis, equestrian sports and more), and is therefore the de facto representative of international sport. SportAccord uses the following criteria, determining that a sport should:[1] They also recognise that sport can be primarily physical (such as rugby or athletics), primarily mind (such as chess or go), predominantly motorised (such as Formula 1 or powerboating), primarily co-ordination (such as billiard sports), or primarily animal-supported (such as equestrian sport).[1] The inclusion of mind sports within sport definitions has not been universally accepted, leading to legal challenges from governing bodies in regards to being denied funding available to sports.[12] Whilst SportAccord recognises a small number of mind sports, it is not open to admitting any further mind sports. There has been an increase in the application of the term "sport" to a wider set of non-physical challenges such as video games, also called esports, especially due to the large scale of participation and organised competition, but these are not widely recognised by mainstream sports organisations. There are opposing views on the necessity of competition as a defining element of a sport, with almost all professional sport involving competition, and governing bodies requiring competition as a prerequisite of recognition by the International Olympic Committee(IOC) or SportAccord.[1] Other bodies advocate widening the definition of sport to include all physical activity. For instance, the Council of Europe include all forms of physical exercise, including those completed just for fun. In order to widen participation, and reduce the impact of losing on less able participants, there has been an introduction of non-competitive physical activity to traditionally competitive events such as school sports days, although moves like this are often controversial.[13] [14] In competitive events, participants are graded or classified based on their "result" and often divided into groups of comparable performance, (e.g. gender, weight and age). The measurement of the result may be objective or subjective, and corrected with "handicaps" or penalties. In a race, for example, the time to complete the course is an objective measurement. In gymnastics or diving the result is decided by a panel of judges, and therefore subjective. There are many shades of judging between boxing and mixed martial arts, where victory is assigned by judges if neither competitor has lost at the end of the match time. Artifacts and structures suggest sport in China as early as 2000 BC.[15] Gymnastics appears to have been popular in China's ancient past. Monuments to the Pharaohs indicate that a number of sports, including swimming and fishing, were well-developed and regulated several thousands of years ago in ancient Egypt.[16] Other Egyptian sports included javelin throwing, high jump, and wrestling. Ancient Persian sports such as the traditional Iranian martial art of Zourkhaneh had a close connection to warfare skills.[17] Among other sports that originate in ancient Persia are polo and jousting. A wide range of sports were already established by the time of Ancient Greece and the military culture and the development of sports in Greece influenced one another considerably. Sports became such a prominent part of their culture that the Greeks created the Olympic Games, which in ancient times were held every four years in a small village in the Peloponnesus called Olympia.[18] Sports have been increasingly organised and regulated from the time of the ancient Olympics up to the present century. Industrialisation has brought increased leisure time, letting people attend and follow spectator sports and participate in athletic activities. These trends continued with the advent of mass media and global communication. Professionalism became prevalent, further adding to the increase in sport's popularity, as sports fans followed the exploits of professional athletes — all while enjoying the exercise and competition associated with amateur participation in sports. Sportsmanship is an attitude that strives for fair play, courtesy toward teammates and opponents, ethical behaviour and integrity, and grace in victory or defeat.[19] [20] [21] Sportsmanship expresses an aspiration or ethos that the activity will be enjoyed for its own sake. The well-known sentiment by sports journalist Grantland Rice, that it's "not that you won or lost but how you played the game", and the modern Olympic creed expressed by its founder Pierre de Coubertin: "The most important thing... is not winning but taking part" are typical expressions of this sentiment. Key principles of sport include that the result should not be predetermined, and that both sides should have equal opportunity to win. Rules are in place to ensure that fair play to occur, but participants can break these rules in order to gain advantage. Participants may choose to cheat in order to satisfy their desire to win, or in order to achieve an ulterior motive. The widespread existence of gambling on the results of sports fixtures creates the motivation for match fixing, where a participant or participants deliberately work to ensure a given outcome. The competitive nature of sport encourages some participants to attempt to enhance their performance through the use of medicines, or through other means such as increasing the volume of blood in their bodies through artificial means. All sports recognised by the IOC or SportAccord are required to implement a testing programme, looking for a list of banned drugs, with suspensions or bans being placed on participants who test positive for banned substances. Violence in sports involves crossing the line between fair competition and intentional aggressive violence. Athletes, coaches, fans, and parents sometimes unleash violent behaviour on people or property, in misguided shows of loyalty, dominance, anger, or celebration. Rioting or hooliganism by fans in particular is a problem at some national and international sporting contests. Female participation in sports continues to rise alongside the opportunity for involvement and the value of sports for child development and physical fitness. Despite gains during the last three decades, a gap persists in the enrollment figures between male and female players. Female players account for 39% of the total participation in US interscholastic athletics. Gender balance has been accelerating from a 32% increase in 1973–74 to a 63% increase in 1994–95. Hessel (2000).[full citation needed] Youth sports present children with opportunities for fun, socialization, forming peer relationships, physical fitness, and athletic scholarships. Activists for education and the war on drugs encourage youth sports as a means to increase educational participation and to fight the illegal drug trade. According to the Center for Injury Research and Policy at Nationwide Children's Hospital, the biggest risk for youth sports is death or serious injury including concussion. These risks come from running, basketball, football, volleyball, soccer, gymnastics, and ice hockey.[22] Disabled sports also adaptive sports or parasports, are sports played by persons with a disability, including physical and intellectual disabilities. As many of these based on existing sports modified to meet the needs of persons with a disability, they are sometimes referred to as adapted sports. However, not all disabled sports are adapted; several sports that have been specifically created for persons with a disability have no equivalent in able-bodied sports. The competition element of sport, along with the aesthetic appeal of some sports, result in the popularity of people attending to watch sport being played. This has led to the specific phenomenon of spectator sport. Both amateur and professional sports attract spectators, both in person at the sport venue, and through broadcast mediums including radio, television and internet broadcast. Both attendance in person and viewing remotely can incur a sometimes substantial charge, such as an entrance ticket, or pay-per-view television broadcast. It is common for popular sports to attract large broadcast audiences, leading to rival broadcasters bidding large amounts of money for the rights to show certain fixtures. The football World Cup attracts a global television audience of hundreds of millions; the 2006 final alone attracted an estimated worldwide audience of well over 700 million and the 2011 Cricket World Cup Final attracted an estimated audience of 135 million in India alone .[23] In the United States, the championship game of the NFL, the Super Bowl, has become one of the most watched television broadcasts of the year.[24] [25] Super Bowl Sunday is a de facto national holiday in America;[26] [27] the viewership being so great that in 2015, advertising space was reported as being sold at $4.5m for a 30-second slot.[24] Sport can be undertaken on an amateur, professional or semi-professional basis, depending on whether participants are incentivised for participation (usually through payment of a wage or salary). Amateur participation in sport at lower levels is often called "grassroots sport".[2] [28] The popularity of spectator sport as a recreation for non-participants has led to sport becoming a major business in its own right, and this has incentivised a high paying professional sport culture, where high performing participants are rewarded with pay far in excess of average wages, which can run into millions of dollars.[29] Some sports, or individual competitions within a sport, retain a policy of allowing only amateur sport. The Olympic Games started with a principle of amateur competition with those who practiced a sport professionally considered to have an unfair advantage over those who practiced it merely as a hobby.[30] From 1971, Olympic athletes were allowed to receive compensation and sponsorship,[31] and from 1986, the IOC decided to make all professional athletes eligible for the Olympics,[31] [32] with the exceptions of boxing,[33] [34] and wrestling.[35] [36] Technology plays an important part in modern sports. With it being a necessary part of some sports (such as motorsport), it is used in others to improve performance. Some sports also use it to allow off-field decision making. Sports science is a widespread academic discipline, and can be applied to areas including athlete performance, such as the use of video analysis to fine-tune technique, or to equipment, such as improved running shoes or competitive swimwear. Sports engineering emerged as a discipline in 1998 with an increasing focus not just on materials design but also the use of technology in sport, from analytics and big data to wearable technology.[37] In order to control the impact of technology on fair play, governing bodies frequently have specific rules that are set to control the impact of technical advantage between participants. For example, in 2010, full-body, non-textile swimsuits were banned by FINA, as they were enhancing swimmers' performances.[38] [39] In 2014, new technology led to the introduction of hybrid engines in Formula One in 2014, as a way of increasing fuel efficiency.[40] The cars use an energy recovery system similar to, but more effective than, the KERS system that was previously used, which recovers energy from braking and the exhaust.[41] [42] Another innovation is the Drag reduction system, which involves opening a slot in a car's rear wing, to reduce aerodynamic drag in order to increase top speed and promote overtaking in motor racing.[43] It has been used in Formula One since 2011,[44] Formula Renault 3.5 since 2012,[45] and Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters since 2013.[46] The increase in technology has also allowed many decisions in sports matches to be taken, or reviewed, off-field, with another official using instant replays to make decisions. In some sports, players can now challenge decisions made by officials. In football, Goal-line technology makes decisions on whether a ball has crossed the goal line or not.[47] The technology is not compulsory,[48] but was used in the 2014 FIFA World Cup in Brazil,[49] and the 2015 FIFA Women's World Cup in Canada,[50] as well as in the Premier League from 2013–14,[51] and the Bundesliga from 2015–16.[52] In the NFL, a referee can ask for a review from the replay booth, or a head coach can issue a challenge to review the play using replays. The final decision rests with the referee.[53] A video referee (commonly known as a Television Match Official or TMO) can also use replays to help decision-making in rugby (both league and union).[54] [55] In international cricket, an umpire can ask the Third umpire for a decision, and the third umpire makes the final decision.[56] [57] Since 2008, a decision review system for players to review decisions has been introduced and used in ICC-run tournaments, and optionally in other matches.[56] [58] Depending on the host broadcaster, a number of different technologies are used during an umpire or player review, including instant replays, Hawk-Eye, Hot Spot and Real Time Snickometer.[59] [60] Hawk-Eye is also used in tennis to challenge umpiring decisions.[61] [62] Sports and politics can influence each other greatly. Benito Mussolini used the 1934 FIFA World Cup, which was held in Italy, to showcase Fascist Italy.[63] [64] Adolf Hitler also used the 1936 Summer Olympics held in Berlin, and the 1936 Winter Olympics held in Garmisch-Partenkirchen, to promote the Nazi ideology of the superiority of the Aryan race, and inferiority of the Jews and other "undesirables".[64] [65] Germany used the Olympics to give of itself a peaceful image while it was very actively preparing the war.[66] When apartheid was the official policy in South Africa, many sports people, particularly in rugby union, adopted the conscientious approach that they should not appear in competitive sports there. Some feel this was an effective contribution to the eventual demolition of the policy of apartheid, others feel that it may have prolonged and reinforced its worst effects.[67] In the history of Ireland, Gaelic sports were connected with cultural nationalism. Until the mid 20th century a person could have been banned from playing Gaelic football, hurling, or other sports administered by the Gaelic Athletic Association (GAA) if she/he played or supported football, or other games seen to be of British origin. Until recently the GAA continued to ban the playing of football and rugby union at Gaelic venues. This ban is still enforced, but was modified to allow football and rugby to be played in Croke Park while Lansdowne Road was redeveloped into Aviva Stadium. Until recently, under Rule 21, the GAA also banned members of the British security forces and members of the RUC from playing Gaelic games, but the advent of the Good Friday Agreement in 1998 led to the eventual removal of the ban. Nationalism is often evident in the pursuit of sports, or in its reporting: people compete in national teams, or commentators and audiences can adopt a partisan view. On occasion, such tensions can lead to violent confrontation among players or spectators within and beyond the sporting venue, as in the Football War. These trends are seen by many as contrary to the fundamental ethos of sports being carried on for its own sake and for the enjoyment of its participants. A very famous case when sports and politics collided was the 1972 Olympics in Munich. Masked men entered the hotel of the Israeli olympic team and killed many of their men. This was known as the Munich massacre. A study of US elections has shown that the result of sports events can affect the results. A study published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Science showed that when the home team wins the game before the election, the incumbent candidates can increase their share of the vote by 1.5 percent. A loss had the opposite effect, and the effect is greater for higher-profile teams or unexpected wins and losses.[68] Also, when Washington Redskins win their final game before an election, then the incumbent President is more likely to win, and if the Redskins lose, then the opposition candidate is more likely to win; this has become known as the Redskins Rule.[69] [70] ^ "Persian warriors".

A sports game is a video game that simulates the practice of sports. Most sports have been recreated with a game, including team sports, Track and field, extreme sports and combat sports. Some games emphasize actually playing the sport (such as the Madden NFL series), whilst others emphasize strategy and sport management (such as Championship Manager and Out of the Park Baseball). Some, such as Need for Speed, Arch Rivals and Punch-Out!!, satirize the sport for comic effect. This genre has been popular throughout the history of video games and is competitive, just like real-world sports. A number of game series feature the names and characteristics of real teams and players, and are updated annually to reflect real-world changes. Sports games involve physical and tactical challenges, and test the player's precision and accuracy.[1] Most sports games attempt to model the athletic characteristics required by that sport, including speed, strength, acceleration, accuracy, and so on.[1] As with their respective sports, these games take place in a stadium or arena with clear boundaries.[1] Sports games often provide play-by-play and color commentary through the use of recorded audio.[1] Sports games sometimes make use of different modes for different parts of the game. This is especially true in games about American football such as the Madden NFL series, where executing a pass play requires six different gameplay modes in the span of approximately 45 seconds.[1] Sometimes, other sports games offer a menu where players may select a strategy while play is temporarily suspended.[1] Soccer video games sometimes shift gameplay modes when it is time for the player to attempt a penalty kick, where a single athlete tries to kick a goal passed the other team's goal keeper with no presence from other players.[1] Some sports games also require players to shift roles between the athletes and the coach or manager. These mode switches are more intuitive than other game genres because they reflect actual sports.[1] Older 2D sports games sometimes used an unrealistic graphical scale, where athletes appeared to be quite large in order to be visible to the player. As sports games have evolved, players have come to expect a realistic graphical scale with a high degree of verisimilitude.[1] Sports games often simplify the game physics for ease of play, and ignore factors such as a player's inertia.[1] Games typically take place with a highly accurate time-scale, although they usually allow players to play quick sessions with shorter game quarters or periods.[1] Sports games sometimes treat button-pushes as continuous signals rather than discrete moves, in order to initiate and end a continuous action. For example, football games may distinguish between short and the long passes based on how long the player holds a button. Golf games often initiate the backswing with one button-push, and the swing itself is initiated by a subsequent push.[1] ″also can customize person and can make own team″ In 1958, William Higinbotham created a game called Tennis for Two, a competitive two-player tennis game played on an oscilloscope. The players would select the angle at which to put their racket, and pressed a button to return it. Although this game was incredibly simple, it demonstrated how an action game (rather than previous puzzles) could be played on a computer.[2] Video games prior to the late 1970s were primarily played on university mainframe computers under timesharing systems that supported multiple computer terminals on school campuses. The two dominant systems in this era were Digital Equipment Corporation's PDP-10 and Control Data Corporation's PLATO. Both could only display text, and not graphics, originally printed on teleprinters and line printers, but later printed on single-color CRT screens. Around that time, electro-mechanical sports arcade games were being produced. Examples include Taito's Crown Soccer Special (1967),[3] Sega's racing game Grand Prix (1969),[4] [5] and Chicago Coin's racing game Speedway (1969).[6] In the 1970s, arcade video games began to appear, many of them centered around the sports genre, after it was popularized by the first commercially successful video game, Atari's Pong (1972). In 1973, Taito released an early team sport video game, Davis Cup, a tennis doubles game with similar ball-and-paddle gameplay but played in doubles, with both players controlling two paddles each.[7] That year, Taito also released another early team sport video game, Soccer,[8] based on association football; it was also a ball-and-paddle game, but with a green background to simulate a playfield, allowed each player to control both a forward and a goalkeeper, and let them adjust the size of the players who were represented as paddles on screen.[9] Both Davis Cup and Soccer were designed by Tomohiro Nishikado of Space Invaders fame.[8] Early hockey video games were also released in 1973: Sega's Hockey TV,[10] and Taito's Pro Hockey, which had similar gameplay to Pong, but with boundaries around the screen and only a small gap for the goal.[11] In 1974, Taito released Basketball, an early basketball game. It was an early example of a video game that displayed sprite images, both for the players and the baskets, and an early attempt at accurately simulating a team sport. Each player controlled two team members, a forward and a guard, both represented as sprite character images. The ball could be dribbled and passed between team members before shooting, and the ball had to fall into the opposing team's basket to score a point.[12] That same year, Sega released an association football game, Goal Kick, which was played like an early vertical ball-and-paddle game.[13] The first driving video games were also released that year: Taito's Speed Race (1974)[8] [14] which introduced scrolling graphics,[15] and Atari's Gran Trak 10. In 1976, the driving subgenre was extended into three dimensions, with the forward-scrolling third-person perspective of Sega's motorbike racing game Moto-Cross,[16] soon re-branded as Fonz that same year,[17] and with the first-person perspective of Atari's Night Driver. In 1975, Universal Research Laboratories (URL) released an early four-player multiple-sports game, Video Action, which featured several different sporting minigames, including Pong-style variants of tennis, hockey, and association football, as well as an early volleyball game and a unique four-court tennis game. Video Action was also an early example of cooperative gameplay, as each sport could be played in teams of two.[18] That same year, Nintendo released EVR-Race, an early horse racing simulation game with support for up to six players.[19] In 1976, Sega released an early combat sport game, Heavyweight Champ, based on boxing and now considered the first fighting game.[20] In 1978 Atari released Atari Football, which is considered to be the first video game to accurately emulate American football;[21] it also popularized the use of the trackball, having been inspired by an earlier Taito soccer game that used a trackball.[22] Taito also released an early bowling game in 1978, Top Bowler,[23] followed by an early baseball game in 1979, Ball Park.[24] Between 1980 and 1984, Atari and Mattel's Intellivision waged a series of high-stakes TV advertising campaigns promoting their respective systems, marking the start of the first console wars. Atari prevailed in arcade games and had a larger customer base due to its lower price, while Intellivision touted its visually superior sports games. Sports writer George Plimpton was featured in the Intellivision ads,[25] which showed the parallel games side by side. Both Atari and Intellivision fielded at least one game for baseball, American football, hockey, basketball, auto racing and association football. In 1981, Taito released Alpine Ski, an early extreme sport game, based on winter sports. It was a vertical scrolling game that involved maneuvering a skier through multiple events: a downhill ski course, a slalom racing course, and a ski jumping competition.[26] That same year, Sega's Turbo introduced a third-person perspective into the genre,[27] with Namco's Pole Position then popularizing the now common rear-view racer format and introducing AI opponents the following year.[28] In 1982, Taito released an early golf game, Birdie King,[29] Tehkan released an early swimming game, Swimmer,[30] and Data East released an early fishing game, Angler Dangler.[31] That same year, ZX Spectrum released the first association football management simulation, Football Manager, while Konami released an early Olympic-themed athletics game, Track & Field, which featured multiple Olympic track & field events (including the 100-meter dash, long jump, javelin throw, 110-meter hurdles, hammer throw, and high jump) and allowed up to four players to compete.[32] In 1983, EA produced their first sports game Dr. J and Larry Bird Go One on One,[33] which was also the first licensed sports game based on the names and likenesses of famous athletes. Also in 1983, Alpha Denshi's arcade release Champion Baseball published by Sega displayed the playfield using several different camera angles, including a close-up shot of the player and batter, and gave players the option of selecting relief pitchers or pinch hitters, while an umpire looks on attentively to make the game calls. The game was very popular in Japanese arcades at the time.[34] [35] That same year, Mattel released Intellivision World Series Baseball (IWSB) by Don Daglow and Eddie Dombrower, possibly the earliest sports game to use multiple camera angles to show the action in a manner resembling a television broadcast. Earlier sports games prior to this had displayed the entire field on screen, or scrolled across static top-down fields to show the action. IWSB mimicked television baseball coverage by showing the batter from a modified "center field" camera, the baserunners in corner insets and defensive plays from a camera behind the batter.[36] It was also, along with Champion Baseball, one of the first sports games to feature audibly-speaking players (as opposed to text), using the Mattel Intellivoice module. Another early sports game to show multiple camera angles in 1983 was Irem's MotoRace USA, a motorbike racing game that switched between vertical-scrolling and third-person views depending on the player's location on the map, switching to third-person view when near a city and to a vertical-scrolling view when on country roads.[37] [38] Another early sports game to feature digitized voices from that year was Alpha Denshi's Exciting Soccer, an early influential soccer football game, which let one or two players choose from six teams, featured a control scheme where they could tackle, shoot, short-pass, and long-pass, featured an overhead view, and had realistic touches like corner kicks, throw-ins, penalty shots, and cheerleaders.[39] Other early soccer football games from that same year were Data East's Pro Soccer [40] and Commodore's International Soccer. Two early water sport games, both based on waterskiing, were also released that year: Taito's Water Ski [41] and Irem's Tropical Angel, the latter also featuring a female player character.[42] That same year, Taito released Joshi Volleyball, an early volleyball game,[43] and they released Irem's 10-Yard Fight, an American-football game that featured an early career mode, where the player progresses from high school, to college, professional, playoff, and Super Bowl, as the difficulty increases with each step.[44] Meanwhile, Kaneko released Roller Aces, an early roller skating game played from a third-person perspective.[45] An early wrestling game, Technōs Japan's Tag Team Wrestling, was also released that year,[46] and was followed by another wrestling game, Sega's Appoooh, the year after.[47] In 1984, several early sports laserdisc video games were released, including Universal's Top Gear which featured 3D animated race car driving,[48] while Sega's GP World[49] and Taito's Laser Grand Prix[50] featured live-action footage. Sega also produced a unique bullfighting game, Bull Fight,[51] and a multiple-watersports game Water Match (published by Bally Midway), which included swimming, kayaking and boat racing;[52] while Taito released a fully third-person motorbike racing game Kick Start,[53] an early female sports game based on high-school track & field, The Undoukai,[54] and an early dirt track racing game Buggy Challenge, featuring a buggy.[55] Other early dirt racing games from that year were dirt bike games: Nintendo's Excitebike [56] and SNK's motocross game Jumping Cross.[57] Nintendo also released an early four-player racquet sport game, Vs. Tennis (the Nintendo Vs. System version of Tennis),[58] while SNK released an early horse racing game, Gladiator 1984.[59] That same year, early ice hockey games were also released: Alpha Denshi's Bull Fighter [60] and Data East's Fighting Ice Hockey.[61] Data East also released a unique lawn sports game Haro Gate Ball, based on croquet,[62] while Nichibutsu released a unique game based on roller derby, Roller Jammer.[63] Meanwhile, Technos Japan released a unique game based on sumo wrestling, Syusse Oozumou,[64] and the first martial arts combat-sport game, Karate Champ, considered one of the most influential fighting games.[65] [66] That same year, game designer Scott Orr founded GameStar, a game publisher specializing in Commodore 64 sports games, and served as its lead designer. GameStar was the most successful sports computer game company of its era, until Orr sold the company to Activision in 1986.[67] In 1985, Sega released Hang-On, a popular early Grand Prix style rear-view motorbike racer,[68] considered the first full-body-experience video game.[69] That same year, Nintendo released an early arm wrestling game, Arm Wrestling,[70] while Konami released a table tennis game that attempted to accurately reflect the sport, Konami's Ping Pong.[71] That year, Tehkan also released Tehkan World Cup, one of the first multiplayer soccer football games featuring a trackball controller,[72] where a button was used for kicking the ball and the trackball used for the direction and speed of the shot, with gameplay that was fairly realistic.[73] In 1988, EA released Earl Weaver Baseball again developed by Don Daglow and Eddie Dombrower, which for the first time combined a highly accurate simulation game with high quality graphics. This was also the first game in which an actual baseball manager provided the computer AI. In 1996 Computer Gaming World named 'EWB the 25th of its Best 150 Games of All Time, the second highest ranking for any sports game in that 1981–1996 period (after FPS Football).[74] The 1990s began in the 16 bit era, as a wave of fourth generation video game consoles were created to handle more complex games and graphics. In 1989 Electronic Arts producer Richard Hilleman hired GameStar's Scott Orr to re-design John Madden Football for the fast-growing Sega Genesis. In 1990 Orr and Hilleman released the game that is still recognized today as Madden Football, the best-selling sports game in North America up until that time.[citation needed] They focused on producing a head-to-head two-player game with an intuitive interface and responsive controls. Also in 1990, Taito released Football Champ, an early soccer football game to allow up to four players in multiplayer mode, involving both competitive and cooperative gameplay. It also let players perform a number of actions, including a back heel, power kick, high kick, sliding tackle, super shot, and fouling other players (kicking, punching, and pulling shirts), which the player can get away with if the referee isn't looking, but the referee will hand out a yellow or red penalty card if he spots foul play.[75] In 1991, the American football game Tecmo Super Bowl was the first mainstream sports game to feature both the league and player association licenses of the sport it emulated; previous titles either had one license or the other, but Tecmo Super Bowl was the first to feature real NFL players on real teams.[76] Orr joined EA full-time in 1991 after the success of Madden on the Sega Genesis, and began a ten-year period of his career where he personally supervised the production of the Madden Football series. During this time EA formed EA Sports, a brand name used for sports games they produced. EA Sports created several ongoing series, with a new version released each year to reflect the changes in the sport and its teams since the previous release. Eventually in the 1990s, 3D graphics were introduced in sports arcade games. In particular, Sega's Virtua Striker in 1994 was the first association football game to use 3D computer graphics, and was also notable for its early use of texture mapping.[77] That same year saw the arrival of the 32-bit era of video game consoles, with the release of the Sega Saturn and Sony's PlayStation, both capable of 3D graphics. Soon after, 3D graphics cards were introduced for personal computers (PCs). These updated systems allowed home sports games to also be made in 3D. The first sports console game to exploit these updates was Gremlin Interactive's Actua Soccer, released in 1995 for the PlayStation. Meanwhile, Sierra Online released Front Page Sports Football in 1995 for the PC. The following year Computer Gaming World named it twelfth of the Best 150 Games of All Time, the highest ranking sports game in the list.[74] At the end of the 20th and beginning of the 21st century, extreme sport video games began to appear more frequently. In 1996, two early snowboarding games were released: Namco's Alpine Surfer in the arcades,[78] and the UEP Systems game Cool Boarders for the PlayStation console.[79] The following year, Square's popular role-playing video game, Final Fantasy VII, included a snowboarding minigame that was later released as an indepdendent snowboarding game, Final Fantasy VII Snowboarding, for mobile phones.[80] In 2000, SSX was released. Based around boardercross, the game featured fast downhill races, avoiding various objects whilst using others to perform jumps and increase the player's speed.[81] In 1997, Sega released one of the first mainstream skateboarding games, Top Skater,[82] in the arcades, where it introduced a skateboard controller interface.[83] The following year saw the release of the console skateboarding game Street Sk8er, developed by Atelier Double and published by Electronic Arts. In 1999, the subgenre was further popularized by Tony Hawk's Pro Skater, an arcade-like skateboarding game where players were challenged to execute elaborate tricks or collect a series of elements hidden throughout the level.[82] On December 13, 2004, Electronic Arts began a string of deals that granted exclusive rights to several prominent sports organizations, starting with the NFL.[84] This was quickly followed with two deals in January 2008 securing rights to the AFL [85] and ESPN licenses.[86] This was a particularly hard blow to Sega, the previous holder of the ESPN license, who had already been affected by EA's NFL deal. As the market for football brands was being quickly taken by EA, Take-Two Interactive responded by contacting the Major League Baseball Players Association and signing a deal that granted exclusive third-party major-league baseball rights;[87] a deal not as restrictive, as first-party projects were still allowed. The NBA was then approached by several developers, but declined to enter into an exclusivity agreement, instead granting long-term licenses to Electronic Arts, Take-Two Interactive, Midway Games, Sony, and Atari.[88] In April 2005, EA furthered its hold on American football licensing by securing rights to all NCAA brands.[89] In 1993, Sega released the Sega Activator, a motion detection game controller designed to respond to a player's body movements, for their Genesis console.[90] The Activator was based on the Light Harp, a MIDI controller invented by Assaf Gurner.[91] Like the Light Harp, the Activator is an octagonal frame that lies on the floor. Light-emitting diodes (LEDs) on the frame vertically project thin, invisible beams of infrared light. When something, such as a player's arm or leg, ineerrupts a beam, the device reads the distance at which the interruption occurred, and interprets the signal as a command. The device can also interpret signals from multiple beams simultaneously (i.e., chords) as a distinct command. Sega designed especial Activator motions for a few of their own game releases. By tailoring motion signals specifically for a game, Sega attempted to provide a more intuitive gaming experience. A player could, for example, compete in Greatest Heavyweights of the Ring or Eternal Champions by miming punches. Despite these efforts, the Activator was a commercial failure. Like the Power Glove of 1989, it was widely rejected for its "unwieldiness and inaccuracy".[90] In 2006, Nintendo released Wii Sports, a Sports game for the Wii console in which the player had to physically move their Wii Remote to move their avatar.[92] The game contained five different sports—boxing, bowling, golf, tennis, and baseball—which could all be played individually or with multiple players. Players could also track their skill progress through the game, as they became more proficient with at the different sports, and use the training mode to practice particular situations.[93]As of 2013, Wii Sports became the second-highest best- selling video game of all time.[94] Wii Sports opened the way for other physically reactive sports-based video games, such as Mario & Sonic at the Olympic Games, the first official title to feature both Mario and Sonic the Hedgehog, in which players used the Wii Remote to simulate running, jumping and other Olympic sports.[95] In 2008, Nintendo released Wii Fit, which allowed players to do aerobic and fitness exercises using the Wii Balance Board.[96] In a similar light, 2008 saw the release of Mario Kart Wii, a racing game which allowed the player to use their remote with a Wii Wheel to act as a steering wheel, akin to those on traditional arcade racing games.[97] The sports genre is currently dominated by EA Sports and 2K Sports, who hold licenses to produce games based on official leagues. EA's franchises include the FIFA series, the NBA Live series, the Madden Football series, the NHL series, and Tiger Woods series. All of these games feature real leagues, competitions and players. These games continue to sell well today despite many of the product lines being over a decade old, and receive, for the most part, consistently good reviews. With 2K & EA Sports' domination, the market has become very difficult to enter; competing games in any of the above genres, with the exception of racing games, tend to be unsuccessful. This has led to a sharp drop in sports-themed titles over recent years. One of the most notable exceptions is Konami's Pro Evolution Soccer series, which is often hailed as an alternative to the FIFA series, but does not contain as many licensed teams, players, kits, or competitions. Another deviation from the norm is Sony's MLB The Show series, which now has a monopoly on the baseball genre after the withdrawal of 2K after MLB 2K13.[98] Racing games, due to the variation that the sport can offer in terms of tracks, cars and styles, offer more room for competition and the selection of games on offer has been considerably greater. Sports management games, while not as popular as they used to be, live on through small and independent software development houses. Management titles today have transitioned to the very popular fantasy sports leagues, which are available through many websites such as Yahoo. Independent developers are also creating sports titles like Super Mega Baseball, The Golf Club, and Freestyle2: Street Basketball.[99] Nintendo has been able to make an impact upon the sports market by producing several Mario-themed titles, such as Super Mario Strikers, Mario Hoops 3-on-3, Mario Tennis Open, and Mario Golf: World Tour. These titles sell respectfully, but are only available on Nintendo's video game consoles, for example Nintendo GameCube, Nintendo 64, Nintendo 3DS, and the Wii. Sports games have traditionally been very popular arcade games. The competitive nature of sports lends itself well to the arcades where the main objective is usually to obtain a high score. The arcade style of play is generally more unrealistic and focuses on a quicker gameplay experience. However the competitive nature of sports and being able to gain a high score while compete against friends for free online, has made online sports games very popular. Examples of this include the NFL Blitz and NBA Jam series. Simulation games are more realistic than arcade games, with the emphasis being more on realism than on how fun the game is to pick up and play. Simulation games tend to be slower and more accurate while arcade games tend to be fast and can have all kinds of ad-hoc rules and ideas thrown in, especially pre-2000. For example, NBA Jam had only two players on each team and there was a NES game where every bicycle kick performed no matter where in the field it was made the screen flash and ended up as a goal. A sports management game puts the player in the role of team manager. Whereas some games are played online against other players, management games usually pit the player against AI controlled teams in the same league. Players are expected to handle strategy, tactics, transfers, and financial issues. Various examples of these games can be found in the sports management category. Since Track & Field, games have combined multiple sports into a single game. Wii Sports and Wii Sports Resort are recent examples. Multisport tournaments are becoming the basis for computer games. Sports-based fighting games are titles that fall firmly within the definitions of both the Fighting game and Sports game genre, such as boxing and wrestling video games. As such, they are usually put in their own separate subgenres. Often the fighting is far more realistic than in traditional fighting games (though the amount of realism can greatly vary), and many feature real-world franchises or fighters. Examples of this include the Fight Night and WWE 2K series. More and more, video sports games are starting to look and act like their TV counterparts as developers focus on creating realistic commentary and camera-angles. Additionally, televised sports, namely American football, have started to model some of their cameras on those seen in video games.[when?] ^ a b c d e f g h i j k l Rollings, Andrew; Ernest Adams (2006). Fundamentals of Game Design. Prentice Hall. ^ Reimer, Jeremy (10 October 2005). "The evolution of gaming: computers, consoles, and arcade". Sports games. Retrieved 2009-05-14. ^ Bill Loguidice & Matt Barton (2009), Vintage games: an insider look at the history of Grand Theft Auto, Super Mario, and the most influential games of all time, p. 198, Focal Press, ISBN 0-240-81146-1 ^ a b c Chris Kohler (2005), Power-up: how Japanese video games gave the world an extra life, p. 16, BradyGames, ISBN 0-7440-0424-1 ^ Bill Loguidice & Matt Barton (2009), Vintage games: an insider look at the history of Grand Theft Auto, Super Mario, and the most influential games of all time, p. 197, Focal Press, ISBN 0-240-81146-1 ^ Where Were They Then: The First Games of Nintendo, Konami, and More (Nintendo), 1UP ^ 20 Years of Whoop-Ass, 1UP ^ "History of Atari Football". Atarifootball.com. 4 July 2009. Retrieved 2011-07-19. ^ Kent, Steve L. (2001). The ultimate history of video games: from Pong to Pokémon and beyond : the story behind the craze that touched our lives and changed the world. Prima. p. 118. ISBN 0-7615-3643-4. Contrary to a popular notion, Football was not the first game to use a trak-ball controller. According to Dave Stubben, who created the hardware for Atari Football, Taito beat Atari to market with a soccer game that used one. According to Steve Bristow, when his engineers saw the game, they brought a copy into their lab and imitated it. ^ "Intellivision Apace Action Network". Intellivision Lives. Retrieved 2009-05-14. ^ "Dr. J and Larry Bird Go One on One". MobyGames. Retrieved 2009-05-14. ^ "Japan's Latest Coin-Op Set To Hit North America". Electronic Games 2 (22): 12. December 1983. Retrieved 5 February 2012. ^ "Digital.Hollywood" . Retrieved 2009-05-14. ^ Ryan Geddes & Daemon Hatfield (10 December 2007). "IGN's Top 10 Most Influential Games". IGN. Retrieved 2009-04-14. ^ "Activision will buy game firm". San Jose Mercury News. 10 January 1986. Retrieved 2009-05-14. ^ Manual for Tecmo Classic Arcade, page 2 ^ a b "150 Best Games of all time". Computer Gaming World. 1996. Retrieved 2009-05-14. ^ Wilson, Jeffrey L. (11 June 2010). "The 10 Most Influential Video Games of All Time". PC Magazine . Retrieved 19 April 2012. ^ Buchanan, Levi (10 March 2005). "Final Fantasy VII Snowboarding". IGN. Retrieved 16 July 2008. ^ Zdyrko, David (23 October 2000). "SSX Review". IGN. Retrieved 2009-05-10. ^ a b Gerstmann, Jeff (29 September 1999). "Tony Hawk's Pro Skater Review". GameSpot . Retrieved 2009-05-10. ^ Mark J. P. Wolf (2008), The video game explosion: a history from PONG to Playstation and beyond, p. xx, ABC-CLIO, ISBN 0-313-33868-X ^ Robinson, Jon and Doug Perry (13 December 2004). "Only Game in Town". IGN. Retrieved 2006-01-16. ^ Surette, Tim (10 January 2005). "EA scores exclusive AFL deal". GameSpot . Retrieved 2006-01-16. ^ Feldman, Curt (17 January 2005). "Electronic Arts, ESPN ink exclusive 15-year deal". GameSpot . Retrieved 2006-01-16. ^ Thorson, Tor (24 January 2005). "Take-Two inks agreement with MLB Players Association". GameSpot . Retrieved 2006-01-16. ^ Surette, Tim (22 March 2005). "NBA evades exclusivity". GameSpot . Retrieved 2006-01-16. ^ Surette, Tim (11 April 2005). "EA scores NCAA Football rights". GameSpot . Retrieved 2006-01-16. (help) ^ "Wii Sports". Nintendo . Retrieved 2009-05-10. ^ Casamassina, Matt (13 November 2006). "Wii Sports Review". IGN. Retrieved 2009-05-10. ^ "15 Best-Selling Video Games Of All Time". Tech Times. 2015-02-13. Retrieved 2015-10-18. ^ "Sega Unveils Details for Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games". GameSpot. 26 September 2007. Retrieved 2009-05-10. ^ "Wii Fit". Nintendo . Retrieved 2009-05-10. ^ "Mario Kart Wii". Nintendo . Retrieved 2009-05-10. ^ Sillis, Ben (April 2, 2015). "The amazing indie sports games you’ve never played". RedBull. Retrieved May 12, 2015.
The conference announced the honor today. Lydon, the 6-foot-8 freshman forward out of Elizaville, N.Y., averaged 16 points and 9.3 rebounds in Syracuse's romp through the Battle 4 Atlantis field last week. His double-double (16 points, 12 rebounds) helped his Orange defeat Connecticut in the semifinals. His 13 points, 8 rebounds and 3-for-3 shooting from behind the arc aided the Orange championship win over Texas A&M.

"I did not know that," Lydon said today, before Syracuse practiced in anticipation of Wisconsin on Wednesday. "It's an honor. It's pretty awesome to hear. Hopefully, we can keep it going."

Lydon comes off the bench for 6-0 Syracuse but is averaging 31 minutes per game. He described the ACC honor as "a pleasant surprise" and said he had no idea how much his celebrity has swelled since the Battle 4 Atlantis. He has vowed to stay off Twitter during the college basketball season.

"'I'm just trying to do my thing," he said.

North Carolina State's Cat Barber was the ACC's player of the week. Barber scored a career-high 37 points last week as State outlasted Winthrop.

This is the last week of the fantasy regular season for most. We have seven targets that could be the difference. NFL Media's Dave Dameshek breaks down the most shameful plays and players of Week 12 in the NFL, including Tom Brady's Thanksgiving shenanigans. NFL Media's Nate Burleson and LaDainian Tomlinson break down the upcoming Thursday night matchup between the Green Bay Packers and Detroit Lions and discuss whether the Lions can take down the Packers. NFL Media's Nate Burleson takes a look at some of the best "Toe Drag Swag" moments from Week 12. NFL Media's LaDainian Tomlinson picks his featured running backs for several categories in this week's "Rush to Judgement." The "NFL Total Access" crew debates if the Indianapolis Colts should keep Matt Hasselbeck under center when Andrew Luck returns from injury.

f Peyton Manning's fantastic career comes to a forgettable finish, he'll have plenty of company in NFL history. NFL Media's Dave Dameshek breaks down the most shameful plays and players of Week 12 in the NFL, including Tom Brady's Thanksgiving shenanigans. NFL Media's Nate Burleson and LaDainian Tomlinson break down the upcoming Thursday night matchup between the Green Bay Packers and Detroit Lions and discuss whether the Lions can take down the Packers. NFL Media's Nate Burleson takes a look at some of the best "Toe Drag Swag" moments from Week 12. NFL Media's LaDainian Tomlinson picks his featured running backs for several categories in this week's "Rush to Judgement." The "NFL Total Access" crew debates if the Indianapolis Colts should keep Matt Hasselbeck under center when Andrew Luck returns from injury.
rec.sport.hockey	re ulf and all jpc philabs philips com john p curcio writes in article qmpfa qna alpha db erau edu drozinst db erau edu drozinski tim writes i am an ulf and pgh fan and what pisses me off about the whole adam graves ulf samuesson debate is that ulf plays hard hitting hockey nothing wrong with that while graves does what he does when the only way to win a game is to intentionally hurt someone which bites jeesus i never thought i d see the day when i defended a ranger you obviously don t watch much hockey if you think that graves is a goon he is one of the hardest working rangers check that the hardest working ranger he had goals this year not bad for a checking type of player and showed up for every single game this season unlike that stiff messier he is fearless and throws clean checks he will also stand up to someone after he hits them not like that pussy oaf exactly my point if you d watch games more closely you d see a lot of goons going after him ulf is one of the main reasons why less physical players for pgh are left alone ulf plays rough hockey but only when other players are putting the rush on mario or jagr if you want to say anyone on the penguins is a cheap shot or a goon say it s jennings or caufield don tslander a good defenseman because your favorite players can t beat the pens even when they take dives like gartner to try for the cheap penalties as for his slash of lemieux fine it was a cheap shot it is the exception not the rule i bet you think mike gartner is a goon because of the time that he slashed the hell out of oaf s arm last year right after all he did get a suspension for it hey that s fine if a player does something stupid he should be penalized including ulf or mario you re not likely to see that happen or anyone else for that matter it s pointless to say any one person is a cheap shot goon because you ll see everyone take a cheap shot now and then especially if you resomeone who is shadowed as much as ulf is jpc john p curcio go bruins philips laboratories jpc philabs philips com scarborough road briarcliff manor ny tim drozinski drozinst db erau edu chew electric death snarling cur spaceman spiff
rec.sport.hockey	re ulf and all william k willis ww a andrew cmu edu writes richard wernick writes stuff deleted if the bruins get to meet pittsburgh in the near future you can bet neely will have his day the sight of watching ulf turtle up like the coward he is is worth almost as much as a stanley cup stuff deleted how much do you watch and follow hockey the pens and bruins will be in the same division next season which will give neeley plenty of opportunity to whine about ulf all i can say is i m glad that you are satisfied with seeing ulf turtle up as a substitute for the stanley cup because that s as close as the bruins are going to come to the stanley cup for a while tim drozinski drozinst db erau edu chew electric death snarling cur spaceman spiff
rec.sport.hockey	re selfish hockey fans in article apr staff dccs upenn edu filinuk staff dccs upenn edu geoff filinuk writes on tuesday when it was raining in chicago espn provided bonus hockey coverage now it seems as though some fans are ticked off that the ny wash ot was replaced with the angels game people must realize that there are more baseball fans instead of hockey fans in the u s the baseball game was scheduled to air and advertisers money was paid so they can t skip the baseball game why don t you people chill out and enjoy whatever coverage you can get well partly because i as an ardent fan of both sports would rather see game of the nhl playoffs than game of of the mlb season even if the bb game involves the red sox espn may have had contractual obligations i understand that part but it s a bit inaccurate to call us selfish just because we want to watch the watch the game we love am i as a baseball fan selfish when i get pissed a cbs for showing approximately one game per month i don t think so while espn may have contractual obligations we as their consumers have a right to voice our displeasure with how they are serving us there s certainly nothing wrong with that bri farenell farenebt craft camp clarkson edu ahl ecac and boston bruins contact for rec sport hockey adirondack red wings calder cup champs clarkson hockey ecac tournament champs glens falls high hockey ny division ii state champs ahl fans join the ahl mailing list ahl news request andrew cmu edu
rec.sport.hockey	re ulf and all joe pitt edu joseph b stiehm writes the way he does does not belong in the nhl there have been cheap shot artists through the history of the game but a lot of them have been talanted players bobby clarke kenny linsemen pie mckenzie chris chelios etc but nobody has been out right as dirty a cheapshot coward as ulf violence in hockey has got to be curbed and players like should have been a women samuelson don t belong when players like ulf who s main purpose is to injure the better players in the league is allowed to continue and the league won t stop it the players should a christian pro aluminum stick directed at his ugly head should do the trick nicely if the bruins get a chance to meet pittsburgh in the near future you can bet neely will have his day the sight of watching ulf turtle up like the coward he is is worth almost as much as a stanely cup this wimp of a player almost ruined the career of one the best right wingers in the game if you are to remove ulf samuelson from the lineup the penguins would not even notice he s gone he s an eyesore on the game of hockey rich rich pull your head out of your ass joseph stiehm as if an aluminum stick being taken to ulf s head is gonna solve the problem with violence in the sport of hockey how the hell can you say the guy is a goon and justify it with your back assward mentality saying that hurting a player will solve anyone s problems is asinine new rules and a new referee system need to be instituted right now too many of the real goons get away with too much because the ref is watching the play or supposed to be i ve seen koharski and van hellemond to name a few with their heads up their asses on a few calls rather than keeping an eye on the goofballs behind the play even if the linesmen were able to call all penalties it would be an improvement tim drozinski drozinst db erau edu chew electric death snarling cur spaceman spiff
rec.sport.hockey	re espn thumbs up your in article apr wkuvx bitnet kozloce wkuvx bitnet wrote i think this proves by point the caps game goes into overtime but due to contractual obligations they have to switch to the fucking baseball sorry for my language but im pissed what the hell were they going to do if their scheduled game went into overtime espn get your head out of your ass now i know there are a lot hey american hockey fans as a hockey fan i can sympathize with thefrustration that you feel the problem is that other americans don t give a shit about hockey they view it as a bunch of canadians with bad accents and missing teeth beating the shit out of each other on a patch of ice when it is too warm now in two thirds of the us to see the stuff naturally on the other hand baseball is the gasp swoon sigh national pasttime baseball is so romanticized in the us that you are supposed to forget that other sport exist after april and before november i feel that since espn shows baseball games a week they should be able to show an ot hockey game instead of the opening innings of a baseball game hell the game is going to last hrs mins so what if you miss the first hrs and i am an indians fan show the end of what you started then switch but then i m a hockey fan what do i know baseball is the all mighty sport jason jae andy bgsu edu go whalers pick well
rec.sport.hockey	re usenet hockey draft final standings in article c un gq idacom hp com andrew idacom hp com andrew scott writes here are the final stadings for the usenet hockey draft congratulations to this year s winner dave wessels of victoria b c who parlayed his initial points into points thanks to all teams for entering the biggest usenet hockey draft ever i hope to hear from you all again this september for the th annual draft usenet hockey draft standings week posn team total pts cash last posn dave wessels brad gibson dinamo riga an interesting note i have absolutely no recollection who was on my team i picked all my players about weeks before the start of the season and then never touched the roster again i got wrapped up in my own money pool and decided not to get involved at all with the usenet pool sorry andrew btw the only thing i remember about my team is that i had joe sacco and maybe john maclean maybe francis and kevin stevens as well out of curiousity i checked the final standings today on r s h only to find to my amazement that with absolutely no input the initial team still managed to finsh th i m not sure what that implies for those who finished below me ciao brad gibson brad k gibson internet gibson geop ubc ca dept of geophysics astronomy main mall phone university of british columbia fax vancouver british columbia canada v t z
rec.sport.hockey	re octopus in article bb ea a lmarsha cms cc wayne edu lmarsha cms cc wayne edu laurie marshall says in article c ssl ebs spk hp com filipows spk hp com dennis filipowski writes door attendants at the joe louis arena have been checking fans for octopuses sp as they are not allow in the arena i want to know where these people are hiding these octopuses everytime i ve been to the joe they checked my purse and that s the only place i can think of putting one any other wings fans out there know of ways to sneak these octopuses into the joe you mean they don t strip search you and do cavity checks the fools
rec.sport.hockey	pilon bites do the isles have another defenseman to insert into the line up besides pilon once again last night s stupid penalty put the isles in a hole for the remainder of regulation and minutes into overtime even though the isles nearly survived pilon s blunder in regulation it was the most inopportune time for a minute major penalty instead of confronting cote as he came across the blueline pilon backed up and swiped at cote s nose with his stick al arbour can t be serious to think pilon is the guy to have out there with the game on the line i heard scott lachance is out till later in the series but there must be someone else bring back the bammer dave langevin lets go islanders john scialdone scialdone nssdca gsfc nasa gov i ve been gambling hereabouts for good solid years jg rh
rec.sport.hockey	team pool standings o k only one series is done but i need to post something by the way the islanders just scored rank team name points final roland behunin cal que que milton keynes kings det pit pit barfly tor bos tor dean s det pit pit oz lak bos lak garry tor bos bos brian bergman det pit det mopar muscle men chi pit pit bh s last place picks chi pit pit dave wessels van pit pit sam his dogs det pit pit ye ding det pit pit tampere stars chi pit pit the mighty hedgehogs of myllyp chi bos bos homesick hawaiian van pit pit killer kings chi was chi puggy greybeards det pit pit ottawa bearcats tor pit tor andrew kirk tor pit pit muller n walker det pit pit excalibur det pit pit rednecks from hockey hell det bos bos the rangers of chi pit pit jeff phelps det pit pit arctic circles det pit pit sludge det pit det the logistician det pit det hillside raiders chi bos bos danielle chi que que stanias stars chi bos bos bloodhook det pit pit gilles carmel chi pit pit pasi fr nti lak pit pit evan pritchard van pit pit skriko wolves det pit pit rangers blow cal pit pit sean det pit pit schott shooters chi pit pit gary shiff tor pit pit mike burger det pit det darse det pit pit mike burger my canada includes quebec ontario mmb lamar colostate edu the maritimes the prairies and florida a beginning computing ta stud four months a year over students served royal canadian air farce university of michigan colorado state university
rec.sport.hockey	habs tie series at yahooooooooo the habs tied this sucker at and the teams now head for quebec city to play game btw final score was habs nords the score might be a bit misleading the habs dominated the game from the mark of the first and then on the score should have been if it weren t for some miraculous save from a ron hextall bastard he s the reason the score was as close habs winning goal was scored by benoit brunet at of the rd roy had an ok game he made the first save one way or another and the defense was there to clear any rebounds this just in espn radio reports that the bruins lost in ot yahooooooooooo those suckers got what they deserved life is just great now if my finals would go just as well nick i ll take off my town crier hat now the czar of mainframe computing bgk musicb mcgill ca mcgill university
rec.sport.hockey	re jets canucks jets hold on win in article c p lsp news cso uiuc edu epritcha s psych uiuc edu evan pritchard writes i will also be happy will a good performance we played ok in vancouver but much better last night as the big guys were going for the jets yep though my reasons for being relatively quiet are simple last year i woofed when we went up on the canucks and look where it got me by the way did domi play last night i didn t notice him on the ice domi got tossed in the nd with a high sticking major he had been playing with kris king and stu barnes and it was this line that was arguably the best in the first two games i am very glad to have found some places in champaign illinois that have satillite dishes to pick up the cbc vancouver feed and i m also glad to have found some other hockey fans some jets and some canucks fans to watch the game with definitely a good thing every little cheer helps evan good thing the net doesn t need a voice to operate i won t have one sunday night when i get home i hope white noise here we come one thing i will say though vancouver can keep steve armitage and john garrett as a broadcast team those two are bad especially when you are spoiled by don wittman at least four or five times steve called barnes selanne whoops daryl turner r s h contact for the winnipeg jets internet umturne ccu umanitoba ca fidonet or please route through tkachuk over to zhamnov up to sel nne he shoots he scores the jets win the cup the jets win the cup essensa for vezina housley for norris sel nne for calder
rec.sport.hockey	sabres sweep it s over the sabres came back to beat the bruins in ot tonight to sweep the series a beautiful goal by brad may lafontaine set him up while lying down on the ice ended it fuhr left the game game with an injured shoulder and lafontaine was banged up as well however the sabres will get a week s rest so injuries should not be a problem montreal edged quebec to square their series which seems to be headed for game the habs dominated the first two periods and were unlucky to only have a tie after minutes however an early goal by brunet in the rd won it the islanders won their rd ot game of the series on a goal by ray ferraro the caps simply collapsed after taking a lead in the nd the isles all time playoff ot record is now vlad the impaler
rec.sport.hockey	and you think espn shafted you like many others i too was watching the caps isles game when the went to the baseball game i too was pissed how could they interupt such an important game i understand about contracts but you would think they would have a clause in the contract concerning important games anyway us blues and hawks fans got shafted worse while everyone in the u s and watched the game on abc however those of us who live in the central illinois area were subjected to watching the arthritus telethon the area that was most affected by the telecast did not get to see the game except through hawk vision this game had it been televised would have been the first home hawks game shown in the area since this television bull has got to stop we are not only being deprived of seeing games due to skyrocketing ticket prices but we are also being deprived of watching them on tv peace hammer
rec.sport.hockey	pierre turgeon a stud being a a blues fan i don t get to see much else from around the league with the exception of hockey night on espn i can t get the blues games where i go to school thus i don t get to see a whole lot of other teams play except for the hawks but last night i got to catch a glimpse of the caps isles game it occurred to me that turgeon is a stud on skates his moves are quick and brilliant you ny fans should be proud p s who won the game caps isles peace hammer
rec.sport.hockey	great comeback for sabres despit changing goalie bufflo sabres has just finished their great four wins over boston all sabres players contribute to those great wins but those talent players including mogily fuhr kemhlev and lafontin impressed me most their skills showed the art of sport not like the garbage speech from the coach s corner go make hocky popular make hocky more exciting but less violent
rec.sport.hockey	re ranger fans kkeller mail sas upenn edu keith keller writes kwolfer eagle wesleyan edu writes reading through most of these hockey news i don t see many ranger fans writing we re here talking about hockey we don t go away like some team s fans when the rangers bite the big one yeah i think we re used to it by now even if some of us do change our sigs to root for our second favorite teams i m new to this system and a big hockey fan and a long suffering ranger fan but remember suffering builds character i don t care i want my f cking stanley cup before i die aargh i ll be happy if they win it before i get out of school the way it s going i may be here saying piled higher and deeper before long ranger fans may be suffering but we re some of the most loyal unlike islander fans who only show up when the team wins this has been observed many times it s true definitely i have a feeling that alot of people out there may not like this statement but by far the worst band wagon fans are the pit fans at least at the present case in point i know a guy who just came to hockey hell tm from pitt u him how bout the pens the re f ing awesome me yeah but beating up on the devils doesn t mean alot wait until they meet boston and or detroit in the playoffs start him when do the playoffs start me uhhhh they started a week ago i m not saying that this is true of all the waddlers fans but there seems to be alot of them floating around who really know nothing about hockey except that they re newly beloved waddlers are the best team in the game right now and when they re not the best team those fans will disappear into the woodwork john flames dev null serious comments welcomed eat the rich as far as the stanley cup goes i think there s only one team that can test pittsburgh and that s detroit this would be the most entertaining and hard fought series mario is amazing keith keller let s go rangers let s go quakers kkeller mail sas upenn edu ivy league champs a cow is not a vegetarian dish keith keller in hockey hell jwodzia eng clemson edu john r wodziak the real black and gold in memorium alan kulwicki space will triumph over those who a polish yankee mechanical engineer for are pretenders to the crown winston cup champion a great person rent
rec.sport.hockey	re where are all the bruins fans robbie po rap psuvm psu edu writes i m just wondering where all the bruins fans are i mean they woofed it up with about posts during the regular season saying that their fave team was going to kick everyone s in the playoffs and win the stanley cup while i see nothing wrong with a little ranting and raving i m just curious why all the boston faithful have stopped posting i mean i haven t even see just one little boston fan post cept for the bruins fans that aren t cocky well maybe they re all out on the golf course or something but i don t know i d sure like to see where all those bruins fans are at still here just doing a little sobbing in our beer so we re to busy to post seriously i think i caught a sig curse from nelson first the rangers and now the b s hmmm how bout dem whalers no offense to steveg or others in hockey hell jwodzia eng clemson edu john r wodziak the real black and gold in memorium alan kulwicki space will triumph over those who a polish yankee mechanical engineer for are pretenders to the crown winston cup champion a great person rent
rec.sport.hockey	re espn up yours in article apr virginia edu mjr u virginia edu matthew j rush writes actually i was angry when they went away from the pens game being a pens fan in central virginia is kinda tough i only get to see them on espn and when they play the caps cause we re close enough to dc to get all the caps games so when espn switched to the caps aaaggghhh matt not nearly as angry as i was to have set the vcr yesterday only to get home to find the bruins vs buffalo that s what i get for reading the tv section and not the sports section for what game will be aired nancy j spera imt division if i didn t know for a fact that p chevron petroleum technology co g elvis was working in a donut shop e p o box la habra ca o in beaver falls i d swear he was n tel njs chevron com driving this truck scotty baldwin s
rec.sport.hockey	re radio stations add boston s weei am as the bruins flagship station you probably won t pick it up anywhere outside of boston since it s only a watt station the bruins also have network stations in all new england states this could be the bruins last year on eei which also happens to be an all sports radio station the problem is that the bruins are not too happy being moved over to a different station wmex am whenever there is a the same night conflict with the nba s boston celtics this happened times during the course of the regular season the celtics own financially troubled weei the bruins might resurface on whdh next year stay tuned ppv mark
rec.sport.hockey	re s quoting the logistician to all tl i am in need of all of the players wearing in the nhl i know now tl only of one ray borque for the bruins any help would be greatly tl appreciated tl thanx hi there logistician is not paul coffey wearing for the detroit red wings that is the only other one besides borque that i can think of hope it helps steve warning removal of this tagline prohibited by law blue wave qwk v
rec.sport.hockey	re espn broadcastsssss quoting cire y trehguad to all cyt hey i am in iowa and i do not mind espn showing the pitt njd games cyt at least i get to see the devils even if they are gettin there ass cyt kicked perhaps they will score and even win a game or two cyt go devils i am sorry to tell you this but i don t think the devils will win a game against pittsburg the penguins have so many scoring threats that you shut down one and another will kill you it s too bad but i must conclude that the penguins will win their third stanley cup in a row i hope someone will beat them but i just cannot see it happening s t e v e backup not found a bort r etry p anic blue wave qwk v
rec.sport.hockey	re hey what about teh c quoting greg rogers to all gr hi all gr due to living in the bay area i as unable to see vancouver s victory gr over the jets last night i know the score but that rarely describes gr the game could someone please post a brief sonapsis sp of waht gr happened how well did each team play were the cannucks deserving of gr the victory gr also could some kind soul please email me the end of season gr individual player stats gr greg gr vancouver for the cup in a virtual reality i am sorry to tell you this greg but in all reality we cannot see vancouver winning the cup they have a rrally good chance to come out of the smythe division and a chance to make it to the finals but no one is capable this year of beating the penguins they have too many scoring threats i would love to be proven wrong but i must conclude that the pens will win cup this year steve mondays are a rotten way to spend a th of your life blue wave qwk v
rec.sport.hockey	re test please ignore quoting ohandley betsy gsfc nasa to all oh from ohandley betsy gsfc nasa gov oh newsgroups rec sport hockey oh subject test please ignore oh message id apr betsy gsfc nasa gov oh date wed apr gmt oh reply to ohandley betsy gsfc nasa gov oh this is a test please ignore oh oh oh oh ok i will ignore this message since it is only a test wow montreal just scored to go up in game of their series oh sorry i was supposed to ignore this message wasn t i bye for now steve dont you dare read this tagline blue wave qwk v
rec.sport.hockey	re espn really sucks big time cdash moet cs colorado edu charles shub writes so all us hockey automobile racing fans all know exactly where we stand espn delays the martinsville race by a day for the nfl draft espn shows baseball instead of the overtime of a nhl playoff game gimme a break guys what really irritated me was that they kept switching back and forth between baseball and hockey after they stated that they couldn t show the overtime period i turned back to espn around and it was hockey great i pulled up a chair and watched then the first overtime period ended and they went back to baseball before coming back to hockey something like minutes later are they trying to alienate both hockey and baseball viewers at the same time as for martinsville i wonder why they even bothered to sign up for it when they it was no secret that it coincided with the draft why not let tnn broadcast it george charlie shub cdash cs colorado edu
rec.sport.hockey	re sharks review part left wings paul fugu data io com paul brownlow writes wood played most of his junior career in seattle he was one of the leading scorers on a mediocre team when he was traded away in he rarely lost a fight and was one of the toughest players in the whl wood is fairly small for an enforcer type i mean fleury does a pretty good job and isn t that large but dody is no fleury having been witness to three or four of his fights closeup he simply isn t ready to fight at an nhl level assuming that it s his role which is all he really showed us in his few games up from k c if he can pass shoot or skate i never saw much of it all he has is a right fist which isn t bad but at the nhl level the other players are smart enough to grab the thing before he can land anything significant once you control that hand he s a fish flopping on the beach and the other player can do just about anything he wants to him his entire strategy seemed to be keep the hand out of reach until he found an opening and i never once saw him find an opening worth talking about he got neutralized quickly and stomped on a couple of times unless he shows some new tricks in camp he ll be on my career minor leaguer list since this was his first taste of the nhl i expect the sharks gave it to him so he d know what he d have to work on off season he needs to get stronger he needs to get more speed and he needs to show some versatility as something else than a simply goond because he wasn t particularly good as a goon chuq imho von rospach esd support training dal aux chuq apple com member sfwa editor otherrealms genie mac bigot alink chuq minor league fans minors request medraut apple com san jose giants a san francisco giants fans giants request medraut apple com the stick not san jose sharks fans sharks request medraut apple com new seat tbd
rec.sport.hockey	islanders win third in ot don t know who scored but the isles franchise record in playoff ot games took game four by a score of for their third consecutive ot win over the capitals tonight at uniondale if you know please post who scored for a isles fan living in atlanta hockey hell lord stan s a uniondale man go isles jsm
rec.sport.hockey	wc finland disaster finland was beaten by czech finland will be th of pool b and will most certainly meet canada in the quarter final on wednesday th lack of scoring skills has been the major problem of team finland throughout the tournament briza goalie was the mvp of the czech team and tikkanen was the mvp of the finnish team jarkko
rec.sport.hockey	re wc finland ketolain messi uku fi jarkko ketolainen writes disaster finland was beaten by czech finland will be th of pool b and will most certainly meet canada in the quarter final on wednesday th lack of scoring skills has been the major problem of team finland throughout the tournament briza goalie was the mvp of the czech team and tikkanen was the mvp of the finnish team in four of the five games finns have played the goalie has been chosen the best player of the opposing team in the fifth the finnish goalie ketterer was elected the best finn has this to do with the goalies having good days in these games or are the finnish players just lousy scorers anyway quite few goals have been scored in these games in generally the exception of course being canada vs italy it looks like the goalies are getting too good is this due to their equipment getting bigger so they cover more their gloves e g seem to be much bigger now than they were some years ago anybody know if the rules on goalie equipment has changed this way mikko wihervaara jarkko t m on nyt t mm nen testi sigun kai piti olla muutamarivinen nyt viel pari
rec.sport.hockey	re stan fischler in apr alchemy chem utoronto ca golchowy alchemy chem utoronto ca gerald olchowy writes wayne made his own bed choosing mcnall over sather and hockey destiny he should sleep in it instead of whining ego got absolute nonsense the decision that was made was pocklington s he chose mill over gretzky if gretzky wasn t upset about not being able to win a cup in la then i submit that he wasn t worth the mill the best of him he thought the supporting cast in edmonton didn t matter that he was the show himself how do you know what he thinks or thought the only thought that i can see that you have revealed is your own you don t like gretzky big deal now my only complaint about lemieux is that he dives too much but last year patrick convinced him twice to accept bowman and hockey destiny rather than his ego the real purpose of diving is not merely an attempt to draw a penalty what the player is trying to do is make the checkers keep their distance so the ref won t be fooled i can t imagine why anyone would expect someone like lemieux to change his game why don t you pick on dimensional over rated type like hull and salami cordially as always maynard ramsey cs laurentian ca so many morons rm and so little time
rec.sport.hockey	ahl playoff results ahl playoff scores first round home team in caps games played on tues rochester utica fredericton at cape breton series stati plural of status adirondack leads cdi providence tied w springfield binghamton tied w baltimore rochester leads utica st john s leads moncton cape breton tied w fredericton bri farenell farenebt craft camp clarkson edu ahl ecac and boston bruins contact for rec sport hockey adirondack red wings calder cup champs clarkson hockey ecac tournament champs glens falls high hockey ny division ii state champs ahl fans join the ahl mailing list ahl news request andrew cmu edu
rec.sport.hockey	nc caps isles fans caps isles fans anyone interested in catching the games from nassau coliseum hopefully there will be another can catch the game at north carolina s original sports bar in chapel hill i m pretty sure they carry hts as well they had all three games on at the same time last night this is the only place i know to catch all of the stanley cup action frank salvatore fmsalvat eos ncsu edu
rec.sport.hockey	pens fans reactions i am sure some bashers of pens fans are pretty confused about the lack of any kind of posts about the recent pens massacre of the devils actually i am bit puzzled too and a bit relieved however i am going to put an end to non pittsburghers relief with a bit of praise for the pens man they are killing those devils worse than i thought jagr just showed you why he is much better than his regular season stats he is also a lot fo fun to watch in the playoffs bowman should let jagr have a lot of fun in the next couple of games since the pens are going to beat the pulp out of jersey anyway i was very disappointed not to see the islanders lose the final regular season game pens rule
rec.sport.hockey	usenet playoff pool game standings here are the standings after game of each of the divisional semi final series andrew usenet hockey playoff draft standings posn team pts rem last posn sneddon scorers arctic circles northern lights threepeat fighting amish team elvis chris roney myers marauders the dead ducks les poteux sludge paige faults sam his dogs the borg hurricane andrew lewey s lakers einstien s punk band homesick hawaiian test department samuel lau calgary alberta mopar muscle men jerky boys gb flyers neural netters give you money monday bill mcgreer fugazi detroit homeboy bloom county all stars dehradun maawalis great expectations purdue ricks pens frank s little wankers jan stein allez les blues goaldingers suds weenies a p bury bruce s rented mules mind sweepers mike burger go flames garryola the mulberry maulers lippe flamming senators big bay bombers milton keynes kings seppo kemppainen freddy beach rockets the campi machine j s rock em sock ems sean forbes tapio repo zachmans wingers zipper heads canadian gladiators teem kanada new zealand leafs tiger chung lees rangers of destiny make beliefs dave wessels norway killerwhales force trevor s triumph commitments skate or die dog s hog s delaware destroyers craig team rangers blow debbie bowles mak paranjape comfortably numb loaded weapons rob del mundo robarts research rebels fuzzfaces galore houdini s magicians la coupe stainless cluster buster lets go pandas tequila shooters steves superstars reksa fans of oulu habs playing golf chris stevens on thin ice oakville brothers jason team smithw anson mak skriko wolves all the kane s men danielle leblanc team awesome weasels alf s all stars zippety doodah kramer george and jerry rev s rebels yan loke lamp lighters littlest giants mr creosote oceanweavers great scott bobby schmautz fan club icemachine hat trick mike the promise land daves knee jerk picks doug bowles holsteins sfb lemon pepper grizzly bears flying pigs les raisins reneb gilles carmel boops bets timo ojala rednecks from hockey hell gee man frack attack triple x ulfie s brothers buffalo soldiers shigella ottawa bearcats whiters monica loke lance hill the boston bruins fa mann mariners new jersey rob frasses faceplants doug mraz muller n walker high stickers legzryx beer makes me an expert gail hiebert dean martin marcs maulers brians bloodletters van isle colonists charlie cook bjorkloven schott shooters bjoern leaguen the eradicators lord stanley s favourites but wait theres more stacey ross heikki salmi the ice kickers chapman chaps the rangers of the underwriters beam team dave hiebert canuck force evan pritchard controversy warriors jfz dream team san jose mahi mahi go go gagit goddess of fermentation bure s blur louisiana psycho killers east city jokers tampere salami joe s a crak head grant marven mark and steve dreaming again pens dynasty chip n dale cherry bombers brian bergman the goobmeister oz arm hammer gax goons daryl turner e i s bosse myllypuro hedgehogs chapman sticks hillside raiders knights on a power play eldoret elephants sparky s select sluggo s hosers butt ends lisa s luggers stanias stars ken de cruyenaere gary shiff jukurit montys nords jane s world rolaids required martin s gag equipe du jour arsenal maple leafs the alarmers killer kings andrew scott andrew idacom hp com hp idacom telecom operation ext during the roman era was considered old
rec.sport.hockey	goalie mask poll update curtis joseph and ray leblanc have made some big moves in the poll recently hextall has shown some strong movement as well kirk mclean and tom barrasso i can t see why have been added to the list recently keep sending in those votes current votes for favorite goalie masks pts st pts nd pt rd player team pts votes ed belfour chicago curtis joseph st louis andy moog boston brian hayward san jose ron hextall quebec grant fuhr buffalo gerry cheevers boston retired john vanbeisbrouck ny rangers ray leblanc usa olympic mike richter ny rangers manon rheaume atlanta ihl don beaupre washington ken dryden montreal retired others receiving less than pts mike vernon cal clint malarchuk buf sd ihl tommy soderstrom phil tom barrasso pit artus irbe sj tim cheveldae det sean burke nj rick wamsley tor ret jon casey minn bob essensa win glenn healy nyi tony espo chi gilles gratton bos rod stauber la gump worsley mtl nyr pat jablonski tb grant fuhr tor felix potvin tor stephane beauregard win mark fitzpatrick nyi chico resch nyi kirk mclean van go skins now for the next question does emotional music have quite go braves an effect on you mike patton faith no more go hornets go capitals mike friedman hrivnak fan internet gtd a prism gatech edu
rec.sport.hockey	wc scores and standings april world championships in germany group a standings munich group b standings dortmund gp w t l gf ga p gp w t l gf ga p canada czech republic sweden germany russia usa switzerland finland italy norway austria france april italy russia norway germany sweden austria usa czech republic april canada switzerland russia austria finland france april sweden canada czech republic germany switzerland italy finland usa april germany france italy sweden czech republic norway april switzerland russia usa france austria canada norway finland april switzerland austria germany finland april russia sweden czech republic france canada italy usa norway april sweden switzerland finland czech republic russia canada germany usa april austria italy france norway playoffs april quarterfinals sweden usa russia germany april quarterfinals canada finland italy switzerland czech republic april relegation a b a b april semifinals a b a b a b a b may relegation bronze medal game may final staffan axelsson etxonss ufsa ericsson se r s h contact for swedish hockey
rec.sport.hockey	re lemieux s getting the hart jeez i hope not in article apr unbvm csd unb ca patrick walker f hh unb ca writes by the way i am canadian play a little and watched hockey night in canada never missed a show well that s really great pat i guess since you ve played a little you thereby qualify as an expert especially since you watch all the games on t v all that qualifies you as is a armchair quarterback or a coach potato not that i condone violence but i ll make an exception for mario pat walker again just further evidence as to what kind of an expert you are truly a stupid statement mario is definately one of the best players to play the game i m not saying he is the best to ever play the game but he should come to mind when that question is asked let s face it he just returns from radiation therapy with around a dozen games left overtakes lafontaine for the scoring lead and then buries him no i guess he just got lucky speaking of lafontaine now there s a guy who should be considered for the hart trophy as well certainly one of the better players in the league this year
rec.sport.hockey	playoffs stats through sunday stanley cup playoff stats through games played sunday april top point scorers rnk pts g a pg sg gw en pim cty tm ps player can bos c adam oates usa stl rw brett hull rus buf rw alexander mogilny can pit c mario lemieux can cal rw theoren fleury can tor c doug gilmour can det d paul coffey usa buf c pat lafontaine can nyi c ray ferraro rus van rw pavel bure rus buf lw yuri khmylev can van rw trevor linden can buf c dale hawerchuk usa stl c craig janney can bos c joe juneau can cal c joe nieuwendyk can stl d jeff brown can pit c ron francis top goal scorers rnk pts g a pg sg gw en pim cty tm ps player rus buf rw alexander mogilny usa stl rw brett hull can was c dale hunter can pit c mario lemieux can nyi c ray ferraro can tor lw dave andreychuk can bos rw cam neely usa la c jimmy carson usa que rw scott young top assist scorers rnk pts g a pg sg gw en pim cty tm ps player can bos c adam oates can det d paul coffey usa buf c pat lafontaine can tor c doug gilmour can stl d jeff brown can pit c ron francis usa win d phil housley swe was d calle johansson can cal d al macinnis top power play goal scorers rnk pts g a pg sg gw en pim cty tm ps player usa stl rw brett hull can was c dale hunter can cal rw theoren fleury rus buf rw alexander mogilny can bos c joe juneau can stl lw brendan shanahan usa la c jimmy carson tch cal c robert reichel fin win rw teemu selanne can mon lw vincent damphousse all the short handed goal scorers rnk pts g a pg sg gw en pim cty tm ps player can cal rw theoren fleury can pit c mario lemieux usa cal c joel otto usa cal d gary suter rus det c sergei fedorov can bos c dave poulin can win c luciano borsato can det lw shawn burr can stl lw dave lowry usa buf rw wayne presley top game winning goal scorers rnk pts g a pg sg gw en pim cty tm ps player usa stl rw brett hull can nyi c ray ferraro usa stl c craig janney usa que rw scott young rus van rw pavel bure can pit c ron francis rus buf lw yuri khmylev can van rw trevor linden can tor lw dave andreychuk can was c dale hunter top point scoring defensemen rnk pts g a pg sg gw en pim cty tm ps player can det d paul coffey can stl d jeff brown usa win d phil housley swe was d calle johansson can cal d al macinnis top rookie point scorers rnk pts g a pg sg gw en pim cty tm ps player can bos c joe juneau usa pit c shawn mceachern fin win rw teemu selanne tch buf d richard smehlik top penalty minute leaders rnk pts g a pg sg gw en pim cty tm ps player can det lw keith primeau rus det c sergei fedorov can nyi d richard pilon can tor rw rob pearson can win rw tie domi a l l e z l e s b l u e s joe ashkar contact for the blues saint louis jca cec wustl edu blues
rec.sport.hockey	minnesota shame i m a hockey fan from way back and maintain an interest as best i can here in the hockey hinterlands oklahoma i m hoping i can get a reading from some of you about the move of the north stars to dallas i ve been under the impression that minnesota was one of or possibly the hockey state in the u s so why is the team moving to a city in texas is it that the owner is a greedy self serving profiteer or were the stars really not making a profit or was the city or whoever owned the arena doing some price gouging as much as i d like to see the nhl only a hour drive from me i can t help but feel for the people in minnesota unless they truly didn t support the team opinions please steve hunter national weather service nexrad radar group norman ok
rec.sport.hockey	blues playoff stats through first round blues playoff scoring through end of norris semifinals ps name gp g a pts pim pp sh gw en rw brett hull c craig janney d jeff brown lw brendan shanahan c nelson emerson rw denny felsner lw dave lowry lw basil mcrae lw kevin miller rw rich sutter c bob bassen lw philippe bozon c ron wilson d garth butcher d stephane quintal d bret hedican d murray baron d rick zombo g curtis joseph d doug crossman c ron sutter rw igor korolev rw kelly chase d curt giles g guy hebert rookie goaltending gp min ga avg w l en so sa save curtis joseph guy hebert team totals so shutouts sa shots against goals st period nd period rd period overtime power play goals short handed goals empty net goals shots a l l e z l e s b l u e s joe ashkar contact for the blues saint louis jca cec wustl edu blues
rec.sport.hockey	wc results april world championships in germany group a results sweden switzerland st swi manuele celio swi patrick howald swi patrick howald sven leuenberger nd swe peter andersson michael nylander pp swi roman waeger martin rauch sven leuenberger pp swe jonas bergqvist markus naslund swe jan larsson patrik juhlin rd swe mikael renberg thomas rundqvist peter andersson swi roman waeger swi felix hollenstein sven leuenberger thomas vrabec shots on goal penalties attendance referee sweden min rob hearn usa switzerland min switzerland beat sweden in a wc for the first time since and the swiss now have a small chance of reaching the quarterfinals if austria beats italy tonight the swiss took the lead after hakan ahlund made an incredibly stupid drop pass at his own blue line and celio came in alone with soderstrom and beat tommy to the stick side the swedes continued to make mistakes as howald was allowed to skate in between the swedish d and put the puck past tommy to make it was a nice one howald entered the swedish zone slammed on the breaks and his shot went in by tommy s far post one of the lousiest periods i ve seen sweden play this year second period saw a new swedish team and the swiss had to ice the puck many times on a pp nylander skated in from the boards pavoni made the initial save but peter andersson scored on the rebound then a power play goal from the swiss a slap shot from the blue line hit two players on the way to the goal and past soderstrom also jonas bergqvist made it after a nice pass from naslund behind the goal jan larsson reduced the lead to just before the end of nd period on a pp skated in unattacked in front of the goal and put the puck through pavoni s hole third period sweden equalized on a slap shot from renberg that trickled through pavoni s hole then another defensive mistake by the swedes waeger was allowed to skate around the swedish goal unattacked and from close range could make it hollenstein then scored on a on break away and put it top shelf with no chance for soderstrom switzerland goaltender reto pavoni renatio tosio defense rick tschumi martin steinegger sven leuenberger martin rauch sandro bertaggia patrick sutter samuel balmer forwards alfred luthi felix hollenstein roman waeger gil montandon roberto triulzi patrick howald christian weber andreas ton joerg eberle bruno erni thomas vrabec manuele celio russia canada st can kevin dineen garry galley can paul kariya eric lindros pp nd can eric lindros paul kariya shayne corson rus valeri karpov rd penalties rus min min can min referee anton danko czech republic attendance russia probably made their best game of the tourney but yet there wasn t enough to win against the effective canadians galley took a slap shot that found dineen by the far post and dineen just deflected the puck past trefilov in the russian goal then a power play goal after a couple of deflections eric lindros found kariya alone by the far post and kariya put the puck high over a sliding trefilov russia won the shots in the first period and they had the most of the scoring opportunities but they just couldn t score second period saw lindros scoring his th goal of the wc kariya entered the russian zone slammed on the break to get past his defenseman then made a nice pass to corson who just got the stick on the puck to deflect it to lindros who one timed the puck the russians then finally got their goal karpov broke in from the side and made a slap shot in tugnutt s top right hand corner player of the game in canada was voted paul kariya and for russia valeri karpov i agree the difference in this game was lindros and kariya and in part also tugnutt kariya had a far better game now than vs the swedes and he was very impressive kariya got the place in the line with lindros after mike gartner went out with a rib injury early in the first period lindros btw lead the point scoring with pts before this game pts ahead of the next player i e double as much as the next player among those kariya with amazing group b results finland czech republic st nd cze petr hrbek fin mika alatalo rd cze jiri dolezal cze martin hostak en penalties fin min cze min referee vincent moreno switzerland attendance germany usa st ger raimond hilger ger gerd truntschka ger ernst kopf ger michael rumrich ger benoit doucet nd rd usa derek plante ger dieter hegen usa craig johnson usa rob gaudreau penalties ger min usa min referee valeri bokarev russia attendance staffan axelsson etxonss ufsa ericsson se r s h contact for swedish hockey
rec.sport.hockey	nhl playoff results for games played nhl playoff results for conference semi finals best of seven patrick adams norris smythe nj buf leads stl leads win pit leads bos chi van leads nyi tied mon tor la tied was que leads det leads cal toronto maple leafs detroit red wings leads series st period det lidstrom yzerman coffey pp nd period det fedorov sh det yzerman coffey chiasson pp det yzerman coffey sheppard tor mironov gill gilmour rd period tor gilmour anderson det ysebaert kozlov det drake kozlov kennedy powerplay opportunities maple leafs of red wings of shots on goal maple leafs red wings toronto maple leafs potvin shots saves detroit red wings cheveldae shots saves att st louis blues leads series chicago blackhawks st period stl hull brown janney pp stl lowry sh nd period none rd period none powerplay opportunities blues of blackhawks of shots on goal blues blackhawks st louis blues joseph shots saves chicago blackhawks belfour shots saves att los angeles kings series tied calgary flames st period lak carson nd period cal otto roberts macinnis cal yawney dahlquist ranheim cal reichel fleury pp cal nieuwendyk roberts musil cal otto dahl sh rd period lak carson granato shuchuk cal reichel fleury macinnis pp cal paslawski roberts nieuwendyk cal fleury macinnis nieuwendyk pp lak rychel blake lak kurri gretzky zhitnik pp cal suter skrudland berube powerplay opportunities kings of flames of shots on goal kings flames los angeles kings hrudey shots saves calgary flames vernon shots saves att winnipeg jets vancouver canucks leads series st period van ronning courtnall linden nd period van courtnall win domi king barnes rd period win numminen housley selanne pp van bure adams craven powerplay opportunities jets of canucks of shots on goal jets canucks winnipeg jets essensa shots saves vancouver canucks mclean shots saves att spike
rec.sport.hockey	question goalie s equipment have the rules for goalies equipment changed it seems that e g glove has become bigger and bigger all the time and pads too and the goalies are wearing over size jerseys am i dreaming if you watch old photos or films let say about ten years back i think the difference is quite obvious who is an expert on this please let me know or have the goalies become bigger jarkko trouble in scoring
rec.sport.hockey	re kings even series at stauer shines in article rfbldinn qe abyss west sun com dvb ick david van beveren writes vzhivov superior carleton ca vladimir zhivov writes game report deleted it bad ref ing won t affect this series which should only go two more games all things being equal wrong the kings just put on an exibition of hustle team play and consistent pounding and took it back to calgary with the series tied at games each the final score was with the third goal an empty netter at of the third conacher this is not an official game report just my observations from the stands melrose made a wise decision and put stauber back in goal robb had something to prove and he did in stopping of while facing a fierce calgary attack there were numerous highlight film saves kings third and fourth lines rose to the occasion playing rough while avoiding bad penalties warren rychel scored the game winner early in the second period rookie defenseman alexi zhitnik scored the first from the blue line late in the first dave taylor is awesome he suffered a broken nose partway through the second pariod checked from behind into the boards by roberts who got and a game he came back late in the third and was on the ice when conacher scored the empty netter actually it was in the third period his return did bring a spark to the crowd and to the players who played awesome defense in the third the kings go to guys still are not producing no goals from kurri granato sandstrom or robitaille who have a total of points between them you forgot about gretzky if any of these guys start scoring the kings will be unstoppable if they continue the great defensive work as well mccreary sucks he called mcsorely for high sticking someone who was already on the ice and sandstrom for high sticking when he himself was already on the ice he missed many flagrant stick penalties including one from flame goalie jeff reese who followed granato out to almost the blue line where he cross checked him he called the game very inconsistently with a series of ticky tack penalties in the first and almost none in the third can t the nhl supply decent officiating i was sitting directly across the ice from ron and nancy reagan when the empty netter was scored nancy leapt out of her seat with both fists high in the air way to go nancy this series is still too close to call tuesday s game may be the deciding one i expect king might put vernon back in even though reese had two good games in la reese has historically been good in la this was only the second time he lost there this move would be good for the kings since vernon is such a sieve i am sure that stauber will get the call for the kings stauber will be in net on tuesday hopefully he will provide another stellar performance and earn the name robb stopper stauber the firswt two lines of the kings have to wake up while it is great to see you cannot depend on pat conacher and warren rychel for all of your offense i expect sandstrom granato and gretzky might be put back together on a line like they were early in the season this would leave kurri carson and luc as the second on paper these two lines look powerful let s see if they can make it real i believe this is how they are i know it is gretzky and sandstrom but he has been putting a number of people on left also the carson robataille kurri line once ignited will light the fire of the other lines hopefully go kings dvb it is evident that the scoring drought is getting to luc after his slight breakaway in the third i think he was steamed on the bench this emotion might help him break his streak also i have noticed blake has had a few really good chances to score but has fanned or shot wide is the injury still affecting him the e d g e stompkin tuba calpoly edu
rec.sport.hockey	re ettans nya indelning in article apr eua ericsson se euaaen eua ericsson se anders engwall writes om jag f rst tt saken r tt f r vi norra kiruna boden pite skellefte crif v nn s husum stersund antj rn sundsvall timr v stra mora g vle avesta uppsala k ping arvika grums rebro tv lag fr n v stra kvalserien vilka stra arlanda v sby vallentuna ster ker danderyd t by aik hammarby s dert lje t lje huddinge nyk ping roma s dra vita h sten m lndal bor s v stervik hanhals troja ljungby m rrum pantern tv lag fr n s dra kvalserien f r det f rsta r det principiellt fel att man har ndrat premisserna f r uppflyttning i efterhand f r det andra kan man ju undra varf r just stersund och v stervik skall f en fri sl ng ja i fallet stersund r det solklart en fix f r ovan n mnda problem med norrgruppen men v stervik r det m nne f r att nyk ping skall slippa spela i s der vilket de klagat ver vad tror ni man s ger i exempelvis tierp som kom a i stra kvalet kommentarer att man skulle bli tvyngen att ndra premisserna kunde man inte lista ut p f rhand huvudsak att man inte flyttar ner fel lag stersund var en solklar fix som sagt men v stervik att det beror p nyk ping tror jag inte p man kunde ju lika g rna flytta ner roma till s dra iaf om man g r efter bredgraderna mest r ttvist vore att l ta tierp och v stervik g ra upp men d skulle roma nyk pinks vara eller inte vara i stra ocks avg ras vad skulle de s ga om det det st rsta felet med rets indelning r exakt samma som f rra ret fast v rre det r inte r tvist indelat sportligt sett vallentuna var en match fr n att g upp till allsvenskan f rra ret ist llet gick g vle upp tror ni n n av dem lyckas lika bra i r aik hif ssk och hik ska sl ss om tv platser om man hadde placerat dessa i var sin division skulle de vara sj lvklara favoriter till en plats i allsvenskan men nu m ste tv ge vika var finns r ttvisan i det jag har h rt att hik har l mnat in en protest till f rbundet ang ende indelningen i stra mitt f rslag vore att l ta orna i varje division kvalspela om tv platser i allsvenskan och efter jul skulle man kunna sl ihop de fyra divisionerna till tv en s der och en norr p s s tt bestraffas inte ett lag som kommer fr n en trakt d r det finns m nga bra lag en kul grej som jag nskar att man inf rde r att l ta vinnaren i allsvenskan f spela i sm slutspelet det skulle bli en extra krydda till division ett ishockeyn om lagen k nde att de var inom r ckh ll till sm bucklan det skulle kanske p sikt ocks kunna minska skillnaderna mellan lag i elitserien och division ett vad s js anders engwall email anders engwall eua ericsson se ellemtel utvecklings ab voice lvsj sweden fax h ll dom som brygger puns ock ger pyanlektionor c a toll n marek marek repinski eos ericsson se man skall inte anv nda fr mmande ericsson telecom ab ord om man har en adekvat inhemsk system design division vokabul r disponibel sweden gunnar emanuel str ng gur pbbxvr jnf va fjrqvfu vg jbag uryc jvgu ebg
rec.sport.hockey	re nhl letter quite long in article apr ramsey cs laurentian ca maynard ramsey cs laurentian ca roger maynard writes in apr sol ctr columbia edu phoenix startide ctr columbia edu ali lemer writes i m not even going to bother to reply to your ranting post the letter is addressed to gary bettman not you he can reply as he wishes not so your post is addressed to all i quote as she said the letter is addressed to bettman the post which though having pretty much the same content is an entirely different entity was addressed to all when she puts the letter in the mail i doubt it will say to all i figure she wanted to let people here see what was in it since it is a topic that interests a lot of folks here that s an entirely different purpose than sending the letter to bettman unfortunately and i guess i let you know didn t i you do not represent a large body of hockey fans by any standard you care to use to define large people constitutes nothing more than a tiny group of fanatics and is in no way representative of a large body of hockey fans on the internet let alone of one of the largest computer networks in the world the largest computer networks in the world phrase is a definition of the internet not a group as a whole that she claims to represent as for the business of whether or not it is large it is large compared to say the number of folks on r s h who are sending a letter to thank him for changing the names at least to this point and just for my own curiosity i thought i d look up the official definition of large in the dictionary it reads large having more than usual power capacity or scope exceeding most other things of like kind in quantity or size now i have no idea how many letters bettman may have gotten on the issue or how many people may have signed them people may be up there thereby validating definition i would also wager that the geographical range of signatures is quite large which would give it a large scope he might be impressed by the size of the list of names why would he be impressed with this unless it were large i am of course assuming that you actually agree with what you are writing and are not simply trying to be a pain about the whole issue to hear yourself speak i personally don t know whether or not i agree with the letter i have very mixed emotions about it i like the names as they are and don t think they make it that difficult to learn the game but there might be a shred of validity to the change paul w francisco in the shadow an angel cries catcher netcom com front line assembly
rec.sport.hockey	re nhl letter roger s response again i assume this is not just flame bait by roger but actually a truly held opinion in article apr ramsey cs laurentian ca maynard ramsey cs laurentian ca roger maynard writes i would say that the letter clearly implies representation of the views of a group that i belong to and i don t share those views and i don t believe that the majority of posters on r s hockey share those views and so i have no intention of allowing them to simply go ahead without making my feelings on the subject clear thanks for speaking for all those who didn t feel it was important enough to say something themselves i wouldn t say that the letter clearly implies representation of the views of a group that you belong to it represents a subset that you don t belong to of a larger group which you do if only because this isn t a moderated group look there are several ways to state an opposing viewpoint three that come to mind are as follows say it subtly result it may not be clear say it directly yet politely result probably it will spark some interesting conversation say it directly and obnoxiously result validity goes right out the window i would agree that unwarranted use of said term is entirely immature you realize that anything you say can and most certainly will be used against you paul w francisco in the shadow an angel cries catcher netcom com front line assembly
rec.sport.hockey	re wings ogrodnick in article qfpfqak vot bpedd andrew cmu edu mike molloy mmaq andrew cmu edu writes i haven t seen any mention of ogrodnick yet in the box scores does anyone know if he s playing mike he s been out but he isn t injured he played well when he was put into the lineup at the end of the season murray has to sit somebody out though if the red wings hadn t played as well as they did in the first game he may have been in the second why should murray juggle players when the wings are dominating toronto like they are
rec.sport.hockey	re sharks review part left wings in article r jsk v apple com chuq apple com chuq von rospach writes paul fugu data io com paul brownlow writes wood played most of his junior career in seattle he was one of the leading scorers on a mediocre team when he was traded away in he rarely lost a fight and was one of the toughest players in the whl wood is fairly small for an enforcer type i mean fleury does a pretty good job and isn t that large but dody is no fleury and fleury is no enforcer an agitator for sure but fleury never has and never will have a fight which seems to be what you re saying wood is the closest fleury ever came to fighting was a game two years ago against los angeles there was a scrum and mcsorley pinched fleury s head under his arm fleury dropped his gloves and gave mcsorley a weak shot to the side of the head mcsorely knowing a good thing when he saw one popped fleury one right between the eyes end of fight fleury got ten stitches for his trouble the only player i can ever see theo fighting is cliff ronning and even then he d be giving up two inches and pounds alan
rec.sport.hockey	re don cherry help me out here in article apr alchemy chem utoronto ca golchowy alchemy chem utoronto ca gerald olchowy writes in article apr adobe com snichols adobe com sherri nichols writes in article apr alchemy chem utoronto ca golchowy alchemy chem utoronto ca gerald olchowy writes john madden picks gary clark of the redskins for his all madden team a lot over much better receivers for much the same reasons cherry sings the praises of doug gilmour a little guy with heart yet one doesn t see a string of american posts saying that john madden has lost his marbles maybe because john madden doesn t pretend that his all madden team is the team of the best players maybe because john madden doesn t feel the need to denigrate players he doesn t choose for his all madden team maybe because madden actually demonstrates some knowledge about football when he broadcasts a game don cherry doesn t denigrate players except those who dive showboat wield their sticks as weapons while hiding behind visors or deliberating attempt to injure or aggravate the injuries of others not always true in fact in the case of doug gilmour he actually praises them europeans that do those things are scum in cherry s opinion canadian kids that do them are tough just like a real canadian ulf samuelsson cheap shots mark messier s ribs and don wants ulf s head doug gilmour breaks tomas sandstrom s arm and don says sandstrom had it coming methinks don is either very confused or just a bigot most likely the latter i used to like don cherry i thought he was great but i m starting to see his true colors redneck and the more i see of them the more i think he s just an asshole alan
rec.sport.hockey	makarov in article apr csd newshost stanford edu nlu xenon stanford edu nelson lu writes i don t think the sharks should dig into the free agent market most of the good free agents will require quite a bit of compensation and set the sharks back as far as player development goes remember the sharks were unwilling to give up player s in addition to the million they offered for joe murphy and i think that s a good approach they tried to sign sergei makarov before this season because makarov wouldn t have required compensation matching the makarov offer was the only real mistake dave king has made this year i have to wonder about the intelligence of signing a year old who is obviously on the downside of his career to a year million contract risebrough matched the offer on king s request and makarov has spent the last quarter of the season in the press box because his work ethic just plain stinks not to mention that he s lost a step and can no longer get himself into position to make the nifty passes i think makarov will be available for free this offseason to anybody who agrees to pay his contract he s ineffective in calgary but he might be able to help a team like san jose with their shortage of talent if there s no takers and makarov doesn t show improvement in training camp i think the flames will just bite the bullet and buy out makarov s contract and release him with his current attitude he is a detriment to the team alan
rec.sport.hockey	more hart trophy stuff in article r bkvinn nm abyss west sun com dvb ick david van beveren writes when you think of the nhl who comes to mind gilmour gretzky mario ah did i mention mario if you said gretzky you haven t really been following along have you if you said gilmour you are a true maynard i don t even think the selection of the hart deserves serious discussion on this group it is a no brainer while i agree that lemieux deserves the hart it is far from a no brainer the hart trophy goes to the player most valuable to his team not to the best player in the league so your above arguement is really worthless the pens without mario are still a damn good hockey team the leafs without gilmour would have been fighting tampa bay for the rd pick like i said mario deserves it imho but it is a very close race and a gilmour victory would not surprise me i dislike doug gilmour with a passion but i must concede that he is extremely valuable to the leafs alan
rec.sport.hockey	re ranger fans in article apr eagle wesleyan edu writes i for one am happy about the ranger s hiring of keenan it s too bad that they didn t hire him when smith fired nielsen maybe he could of staightened out the babies on this team and made the playoffs what this team needs is a little fire under their butts reading through most of these hockey news i don t see many ranger fans writing i m new to this system and a big hockey fan and a long suffering ranger fan but remember suffering builds character i have some final questions about the way the team was handled in that last dreadful stretch knowing they needed offensive help from the blueline why didn t we see mike hurlbut who played pretty well when he was called up when leetch first went down why is joe kocur playing every night he is not bob probert who is tough but also can play how come paul broten is relegated to street clothes for the end of the season at least he plays with some heart and character draws penalties and plays when he s on the ice was he in the doghouse for some reason joe cirella enough said ranger fans may be suffering but we re some of the most loyal unlike islander fans who only show up when the team wins as far as the stanley cup goes i think there s only one team that can test pittsburgh and that s detroit this would be the most entertaining and hard fought series mario is amazing kurt i think joe kocus should play every night he is a big physical guy and he gets the fans into the game with some big hits both checks and fists its a big advantage to get the crowd going plus he helps protect the other players notice there are very few fights when kocur is on the ice unless he is it i have seen people start to go after essa tikkanen only to go slinking away when kocur steps in i think he is big asset but should be third line and special situation only play
rec.sport.hockey	re sharks review part the trades nlu xenon stanford edu nelson lu writes acquired c marcus thuresson from n y islanders for rw brian mullen grade i b c it is not known yet what the impact overall of this trade would be as thuresson is not yet under contract to the sharks and does not appear to be ready to become so anytime soon mullen meanwhile has had a productive somewhat season with the islanders thuresson however does not appear to be a big scorer at all if my memory is right he had just points in just games in the swedish elite league in this season i didn t notice his name frequently at all in staffan s reports and he didn t make the national team either it does not appear to be a good sign marcus thuresson had goals assists points and pim in games this season for leksand in the swedish elite league this was only th in point scoring for leksand marcus born may ht cm wt kg is relatively young so he might still start producing but i think the sharks may have done a bad trade here staffan staffan axelsson etxonss ufsa ericsson se r s h contact for swedish hockey
rec.sport.hockey	re and you think espn shafted you in article bb bf rrhammer vm cmp ilstu edu rrhammer vm cmp ilstu edu writes like many others i too was watching the caps isles game when the went to the baseball game i too was pissed how could they interupt such an important game i understand about contracts but you would think they would have a clause in the contract concerning important games anyway us blues and hawks fans got shafted worse while everyone in the u s and watched the game on abc however those of us who live in the central illinois area were subjected to watching the arthritus telethon the area that was most affected by the telecast did not get to see the game except through hawk vision this game had it been televised would have been the first home hawks game shown in the area since this television bull has got to stop we are not only being deprived of seeing games due to skyrocketing ticket prices but we are also being deprived of watching them on tv peace hammer i m familiar with the telethon situation an individual on compuserve was also victimized and was equally pissed that was a local television station contract which could not be broken for that item i strongly suggest you call that affiliate and vent your anger on them supposedly one station had told my friend that they have received hundreds of angry calls which will translate into far less incentive to pre empt hockey telecasts in future the contract was written when the pathetic wlaf was in that time slot tom galvin galvint taurus cs nps navy mil
rec.sport.hockey	re espn f ck up in article wavefront wti com matthew wavefront wti com matt coohill writes okay here s some gripe ing griping whatever i live in santa barbara for reference i think okay abc showed the kings flames fine yawn espn through a fortunate rainout of a baseball game showed the red wings toronto game cool but i swear that the advertisements all week long had said that espn would show pitt nj on tuesday and bos buff on thursday i raced home from work early pacific to catch the game but alas it was the boston buffalo game and then they promised that they would show the pitt nj game on thursday overnight they changed their mind rest deleted espn never committed and i never saw advertised to a particular thursday game they had originally scheduled bos buf and that was somehow leaked on this net but to my knowledge espn never publicly released a schedule until monday when they announced pitt nj thursday and boston buffalo saturday tom galvin galvint taurus cs nps navy mil
rec.sport.hockey	re espn in article randolin polisci umn edu randolin polisci umn edu robert andolina writes the thing that confuses me most about espn is that they decided to show the penguins and devils again on thursday night being that both of the first two games were dominated by pitt you would think that they would show a different game this is in addition to the fact that they should show other games just for the sake of fair exposure nesn owns the rights to bruin telecasts i suspect that nesn was only going to sell one telecast to espn remember espn only owns exclusive rights to the finals not the entire playoffs since espn bought the sca contract there are less wrangles to untie with showing the devils and penguins also some of you should know that as far as i can tell espn is not going to show campbell conference games regularly in the first two rounds i believe that they are only going to show campbell games in the first two rounds as those series wear on games or perhaps games i think the same broadcast rights factor comes into it plus they have no way of fitting western game times into their current schedule unless the nhl was willing to make a western club move up their game i think the nhl got as much as it could when it shuffled the deck for abc also does anyone have info on abc coverage for this sunday same exact coverage as last week pit nj game in the east chi stl in the central la cgy in the mountains and west robert andolina randolin polisci umn edu tom galvin galvint taurus cs nps navy mil
rec.sport.hockey	re habs late in article apr newshub ists ca dchhabra stpl ists ca deepak chhabra writes vincent damphousse has decided to take a vacation apparently i have my respect for the power of the hockey gods is preventing me from commenting on the above and for commenting on whether the guy damphousse was traded for is on vacation or not perhaps roger demonstrably in contempt of the hockey gods and paying for it dares a comment or two mike eisler mre eng sun com not only are they leafs the best team but their fans are even more intelligent and insightful than pittsburgh s their players are mighty bright too i mean he really was going to get his wallet back right jan brittenson on leaf pen woofers in rec sport hockey
rec.sport.hockey	re let s go buffalo in article rap psuvm psu edu robbie po rap psuvm psu edu writes in article afpiknm wbli isj andrew cmu edu william k willis ww a andrew cmu edu says you know i never really appreciated them before looks like bob errey s ring really sparkles in that locker room and everyone else wants one too correct me if i m wrong though just through no fuhr s rings out sparkle errey s and doesn t bob have rings mike eisler mre eng sun com not only are they leafs the best team but their fans are even more intelligent and insightful than pittsburgh s their players are mighty bright too i mean he really was going to get his wallet back right jan brittenson on leaf pen woofers in rec sport hockey
rec.sport.hockey	re buffalo boston defense in article r s q b hsdndev harvard edu nhmas gauss med harvard edu mark shneyder writes bruins have never come back to win after falling behind in their entire year history which doesn t mean much since the statistics are mostly based on the game playoff format but yes it looks dark for the b s what a disappointment still i think the problem is mental they needed the saves blue came up with perhaps he can offer something to mentally rally around who do you think gets the start in game three i hope it is going to be blue if the team can rally around him maybe moog can too jan brittenson bson gnu ai mit edu
rec.sport.hockey	re pens fans reactions i m really impressed with bowman s coaching tactics he s had an answer for every move that brooks has thrown at the pens susan dart such as jake
rec.sport.hockey	re flames final kings destroyed vzhivov superior carleton ca vladimir zhivov writes flames final score calgary l a things are back to where they belong gretzky didn t play kelly hrudey is his old self again let s hope the flames put the old timers away asap vlad the impaler yes these last couple of months the kinngs have failed to show up in about one game in five presumably last night was that one game in five jon
rec.sport.hockey	sharks jack feirerra was re sharks kingston fired in article jgl apple com chuq apple com chuq von rospach writes snichols adobe com sherri nichols writes of course ferreira had also traded a number of veterans with marginal contributions before he was fired so it s not clear that this would have been different besides they were marginal contributors let s also not forget that ferreira came this close to trading kelly kisio which if the rumors i ve heard are true was over the strong objections of other aspects of shark management and probably had a lot to do with both his ouster and the three headed consensus oriented gm imagine for a second where the sharks would be today if that fax machine hadn t jammed on the other hand i m hard pressed to think of any other real mistakes fereirra made imagine indeed but then again we have the benefit of hindsight let s say that in the view of the sharks upper management the attempt to trade kisio was a major factor in the decision to fire feirerra i m inclined to take exactly the opposite view they should have kept him he s obviously the luckiest man in hockey wonder what sacrifice he made to the muse of fax his job i guess have fun gak richard stueven aha he has erected a multitude of new internet gak wrs com go offices and sent hither swarms attmail attmail gakhaus gak sharx of officers to harass our people cow palace h and eat out their substance
rec.sport.hockey	re lemieux s getting the hart jeez i hope not in article apr unbvm csd unb ca patrick walker f hh unb ca wrote who should get the hart gretzky not in a million years at least not this year he hasn t played all year yzerman though it would be nice i don t think he ll get it he s consistent but not well known thought he should be mario jesus no it s bad enough for me just to utter the word without being extremely sick and pissed off they guy s a luber i think he should become a stuntman after he retires jeez he ha s enough expericene falling down oope stick didn t come anywhe re near me gotta fall got to get a penalty against the other team it s the annual whine a thon with today s host jerry lewis by the way i am canadian play a little and watched hockey night in canada never missed a show not one of these well a my home team is in the finals and i was a hockey fan for ten minutes now give me a f king break with this mario is the best player ever what did gretzky die i wish bobby clarke and the broadstreet bullies were still around they d know what to do with a whouse like mario they d bounce him around like the puck not that i condone violence but i ll make an exception for mario but if mario is going to complain about being hit someone should give him and scotty something real to complain about sorry to ramble as you can see i hate mario pat walker unb you along with mario lemieux must be from another planet the only difference is that lemieux comes from the one with geo washington abe lincoln and many other great men and women of this world whereas you come from the one with david koresh yeah mario is good at drawing penalties but wouldn t you try do something you do claim to play to give your team an advantage i don t remember lemieux getting any diving penalties this year whereas many others did finally mario has never complained about being hit he knows it s part of the game he gets back by dishing out an even bigger hit to the same guy or just scoring a few goals or setting them up don t you have any compassion for a man who has gone through so much in his life george
rec.sport.hockey	re s in article r on p bigboote wpi edu ching bigwpi wpi edu the logistician writes i am in need of all of the players wearing in the nhl i know now only of one ray borque for the bruins any help would be greatly appreciated thanx the logistician reigns supreme go blue go tigers go pistons go lions go red wings ching wpi wpi edu pierre turgeon of nyi and paul coffey of detorit are both hope this help anson
rec.sport.hockey	re pens fans reactions terence rokop writes richard j coyle writes that s not inner calm it s boredom and it s being spoiled the arena s been as quiet as a church on many nights this year too many of us just take winning for granted it s been seemingly forever since the team lost and we ve forgotten what it s like to feel real excitement and surprise at victory i don t really agree with this but it is an entirely different high at any rate the first cup the pens won i didn t think about anything else i just watched mario and all skate the thing around the ice now it seems to be more of a question whether or not thirty years from now young hockey fans may there be millions will still ask us what it was like to watch this team that s what they are playing for now but i was still as nervous as ever when the devils were blasting shots at barrasso in the final seconds of game three so the fun is far from over yet i m not bored either most people i know say that winning the second cup was better than the first but to me nothing will ever top that first one but i m every bit as excited this year and i am experiencing that inner calm to which susan originally referred inner calm is not boredom as far as the arena in general being boring well richard s got that right it s been that way all season i attribute it to a lot of new fans who just don t have the same spirit and knowledge as long time fans at last tuesday s game i overheard a man express surprise that a goaltender can get an assist anyone who follows sports with regularity knows that anything can happen at any time i m confident in the pens but i m also not stupid enough to think for one minute that it s impossible for new jersey to blow them out of this series i doubt that will happen but it s possible bored uh uh spoiled not in the least forgot what excitement is like living through that amazing streak wasn t exciting i don t take a darned thing for granted god look at chicago and i see no problem with quietly savoring all of this anyway it isn t gonna last forever and i intend to enjoy it while i can mom
rec.sport.hockey	nhl alltime scoring leaders here are the nhl s alltime leaders in goals and points at the end of the season again much thanks to joseph achkar carl notes an active player is a player that has scored at least one point the past season the points leaders follow the goal leaders if you find any mistakes please send me email all time nhl leading goal scorers denotes active player gordie howe det hfd wayne gretzky edm la marcel dionne det la nyr phil esposito chi bos nyr bobby hull chi wpg hfd mike gartner wsh min nyr mike bossy nyi guy lafleur mtl nyr que johnny bucyk det bos maurice richard mtl stan mikita chi frank mahovlich tor det mtl michel goulet que chi jari kurri edm la bryan trottier nyi pit gilbert perreault buf jean beliveau mtl lanny mcdonald tor col cgy jean ratelle nyr bos norm ullman det tor dino ciccarelli min wsh det darryl sittler tor phi det mario lemieux pit glenn anderson edm tor alex delvecchio det mark messier edm nyr dale hawerchuk wpg buf rick middleton nyr bos steve yzerman det peter stastny que nj rick vaive van tor chi buf joe mullen stl cgy pit yvan cournoyer mtl dave taylor la steve shutt mtl la denis savard chi mtl bill barber phi brian propp phi bos min gary unger tor det stl atl la edm rod gilbert nyr steve larmer chi john ogrodnick det que nyr other active players bernie nicholls la nyr edm nj pat lafontaine nyi buf brian bellows min mtl dave andreychuk buf tor tim kerr phi nyr hfd bobby smith min mtl brett hull cgy stl luc robitaille la mike foligno det buf tor dave christian wpg wsh bos stl chi paul coffey edm pit la det brent sutter nyi chi pat verbeek nj hfd ron francis hfd pit cam neely van bos ray bourque bos bob carpenter wsh nyr la bos tor brent ashton van col nj min que det wpg bos cgy doug gilmour stl cgy tor rick tocchet phi pit kevin dineen hfd phi tomas sandstrom nyr la dale hunter que wsh ryan walter wsh mtl van brian mullen wpg nyr sj nyi ed olczyk chi tor wpg nyr kirk muller nj mtl joe nieuwendyk cgy jimmy carson la edm det all time nhl scoring leaders denotes active player wayne gretzky edm la gordie howe det hfd marcel dionne det la nyr phil esposito chi bos nyr stan mikita chi bryan trottier nyi pit johnny bucyk det bos guy lafleur mtl nyr que gilbert perreault buf alex delvecchio det jean ratelle nyr bos mark messier edm nyr norm ullman det tor peter stastny que nj jean beliveau mtl dale hawerchuk wpg buf bobby clarke phi paul coffey edm pit la det denis savard chi mtl jari kurri edm la mario lemieux pit bobby hull chi wpg hfd bernie federko stl mike bossy nyi michel goulet que chi darryl sittler tor phi det mike gartner wsh min nyr frank mahovlich tor det mtl ray bourque bos dave taylor la denis potvin nyi henri richard mtl steve yzerman det bobby smith min mtl rod gilbert nyr glenn anderson edm tor lanny mcdonald tor col cgy rick middleton nyr bos dave keon tor hfd ron francis hfd pit bernie nicholls la nyr edm nj brian propp phi bos min andy bathgate nyr tor det pit maurice richard mtl larry robinson mtl la dino ciccarelli min wsh det steve larmer chi joe mullen stl cgy pit bobby orr bos chi brad park nyr bos det butch goring la nyi bos bill barber phi dennis maruk cal cle wsh min ivan boldirev bos cal chi atl van det yvan cournoyer mtl dean prentice nyr bos det pit min ted lindsay det chi tom lysiak atl chi dale hunter que wsh john tonelli nyi cgy la chi que jacques lemaire mtl larry murphy la wsh min pit john ogrodnick det que nyr doug wilson chi sj doug gilmour stl cgy tor red kelly det tor pierre larouche pit mtl hfd nyr bernie geoffrion mtl nyr steve shutt mtl la phil housley buf wpg wilf paiment kc col tor que nyr buf pit peter mcnab buf bos van nj brian bellows min mtl dave andreychuk buf tor pit martin det bos chi van pat lafontaine nyi buf ken linesman phi edm bos gary unger tor det stl atl la edm ken hodge sr chi bos nyr neal broten min wayne cashman bos rick vaive van tor chi buf borje salming tor det jean pronovost pit atl wsh peter mahovlich det mtl pit dave christian wpg wsh bos stl chi rick kehoe tor pit rick macleish phi hfd pit det thomas steen wpg other active players al macinnis cgy luc robitaille la mike foligno det buf tor brent sutter nyi chi mark howe hfd phi det kirk muller nj mtl tim kerr phi nyr hfd adam oates det stl bos randy carlyle tor pit wpg ryan walter wsh mtl van pat verbeek nj hfd brent ashton van col nj min que det wpg bos cgy bob carpenter wsh nyr la bos tor brian mullen wpg nyr sj nyi ed olczyk chi tor wpg nyr kelly kisio det nyr sj brett hull cgy stl rick tocchet phi pit dan quinn cgy pit van stl phi min scott stevens wsh stl nj tomas sandstrom nyr la tom fergus bos tor van dave babych wpg hfd van mike ridley nyr wsh laurie boschman tor edm wpg nj ott keith acton mtl min edm phi murray craven det phi hfd kevin dineen hfd phi rob ramage col stl cgy tor min tb mike krushelnyski bos edm la tor gary suter cgy pierre turgeon buf nyi troy murray chi wpg cam neely van bos geoff courtnall bos edm wsh stl van vincent damphousse tor edm mtl jimmy carson la edm det peter zezel phi stl wsh tor guy carbonneau mtl mark osborne det nyr tor wpg chris chelios mtl chi dave poulin phi bos ray ferraro hfd nyi russ courtnall tor mtl min joe nieuwendyk cgy john maclean nj
rec.sport.hockey	now if espn wanted to show a good game they could put on a quebec montreal game talk a bout areivalry opps rivalry roland roland
rec.sport.hockey	re nhl draft cs ariel yorku ca shawn luddington writes as for the picks ottawa picks which means it is almost that alexander daigle will go he ll either stay or be traded in montreal or quebec i dunno about hat i have friends up there on genie who are now saying that ottawa s gone soft on daigle and is thinking hard about pronger daigle has shown an attitude the latter part of this season many folks havne t liked and after coming back from his second multi game suspension for being stupid he s really tanked in his performance his stock is dropping like a rock also remember that a lot of teh draft st stuff comes from the assumption he ll be traded to quebec for lots of prospects it s not clear that quebec would really be willing to pay a lot for him given his current status he s still first round but i don t consider him a first pick lock by any means at this point it s also possible that the senators are posturing to try to bring down his signing price since daigle has been taking some lindros lessons during thos suspensions imo i would take kariya he should alot of leadership in the ncaa and so far in the world championships daigle didn t show this for his junior team san jose will then get kariya no kariya won t go in the first three for a very simple reason he s not leaving college and i don t believe any of the expansion teams are going to use a first for someone who won t be around for another year or two not when there is equally good or almost as good stuff available that can make an immediate impact san jose seems to be leaning heavily towards niedermayer for that reason kariya could go th or th unless a team can convince him to leave school early which i doubt my cut on things as they stand today draft order ottawa daigle if not pronger san jose niedermayer unless ottawa skips daigle then it s open it depends on if the sharks can get a deal for him i don t believe they draft him to keep him tampa bay whoever ottawa doesn t take or maybe koslov chuq imho von rospach esd support training dal aux chuq apple com member sfwa editor otherrealms genie mac bigot alink chuq minor league fans minors request medraut apple com san jose giants a san francisco giants fans giants request medraut apple com the stick not san jose sharks fans sharks request medraut apple com new seat tbd
rec.sport.hockey	re sharks kingston fired spiegel sgi msd lmsc lockheed com mark spiegel writes gaetz may or may not be back next year but in either event the sharks have to pick up others gaetz won t be back there s been rumors he was officially released right at the end of the season when his contract expired but i haven t seen confirmation it was clear from my talks with the sharks doctors that he wasn t going to make it for a while and the sharks would have to sign him to a contract which given his problems competing at the ihl level this spring doesn t make sense chuq imho von rospach esd support training dal aux chuq apple com member sfwa editor otherrealms genie mac bigot alink chuq minor league fans minors request medraut apple com san jose giants a san francisco giants fans giants request medraut apple com the stick not san jose sharks fans sharks request medraut apple com new seat tbd
rec.sport.hockey	re bruins joe pitt edu joseph b stiehm writes come on boston where the hell are you seven wins in a row and what choke ah well another brian sutter team is ground into the dirt with intensity during the regular season and then is burned out by playoff time yah fuhr has been awesome so far but really you d think sutter would have learned his lesson about pushing his team too far during the regular season stuart esrock bowling green state u how bout them blues
rec.sport.hockey	re camera work on televised games in article apr vax cit cornell edu yecx vax cit cornell edu writes is it just me or is the camera work on some of these games really sad i can t remember how many times during the penguins devils game they showed some guy without the puck being checked in the corner while the puck was being fired on goal in fact i think they even missed one goal completely because they were showing two guys holding each other in the corner now the last time i watched a football game they didn t show the lineman going at it while the running back turned the corner for a touchdown is it just me greg espn has been trying various things to get away from the follow the puck concept of televising hockey games one of the main problems with hockey is that it is very difficult to show everything that is going on more happens away from the puck than in any other sport except maybe football and they can do iso s on football players to be shown between plays the problem of course is that sometimes you get something worthwhile other times you get burned tom galvin galvint taurus cs nps navy mil
rec.sport.hockey	re joseph and blues shut down warthawks blues up cr cleveland freenet edu jim schenk writes one last point darryl sutter is getting badly out coached by bob berry the madder darryl gets the more he reminds me of brian the hawks are quickly loosing thier focus i don t think the blues will win in but you never know not to sutter bash or anything since i idolized them as players you sure would think the sutters would learn something about burning out their teams in the regular season just too much intensity during the regular season i earlier posted a note about brian and got to thinking after i read this item gee both sutters won their divisions and now both have lost home ice advantage and are getting smoked in their opening series in the playoffs kind of makes you wonder bottom line man it is great to be smoking the warthawks agreed jim this has been damn sweet so far about the only thing that comes close to this is shutting up all the maple laugh fans detroit has completely kicked their asses so far but i will stick with the blues for providing the best playoff tonic so far stuart esrock bowling green state u go you blues
rec.sport.hockey	playoff consecutive loss record with the recent demise of the chicago blawkhawks much to my delight i noticed their game playoff losing streak to the pens last year and now to the blues and i am wondering what the nhl record for consecutive losses is if there even is one i m pretty sure that the hawks have at least a game losing streak since they ve had to have lost a series since their last championship whenever that was basically i need something else to rag on my hawks fan friend with mike the insomniaced yes rush marillion emerson lake and palmer genesis dream theater mike weintraub aka jvi on irc sig quote du jour mweintr american edu life is like a scissors paper jedi wave cerf net stone game none of the answers the american university is always right but sometimes washington dc each one is neil peart rush go philadelphia phillies and vancouver canucks down to go
rec.sport.hockey	re lemieux s getting the hart jeez i hope not in article apr unbvm csd unb ca patrick walker f hh unb ca writes who should get the hart gretzky not in a million years at least not this year he hasn t played all year yzerman though it would be nice i don t think he ll get it he s consistent but not well known thought he should be mario jesus no it s bad enough for me just to utter the word without being extremely sick and pissed off they guy s a luber to ramble as you can see i hate mario pat walker unb i m not going to bother reprinting your pathetic excuse for a post mario fan or not you have to respect what he can do with a blade as for the hart trophy i guess winning the scoring title after being out twenty four days with cancer then leading his team to the presidents trophy and breaking the win streak record in the process shouldn t even qualify him for the award maybe next year he ll tend a few games when barrasso needs a rest be realistic mario has earned every one of his accolades and deserves all the attention that he gets lose the jealous attitude and you may start enjoying hockey at its finest maze
rec.sport.hockey	belfour and roenick playoff houdinis have belfour and roenick done another disappearing act at chips are down time when i saw them it looked like the blackhawks defense might carry them along way in the playoffs well they held st louis to shots in game and lost looks like maybe keenan had has some insight to me
rec.sport.hockey	re ranger fans in article apr alleg edu ballb reis alleg edu brett ball writes in article apr eagle wesleyan edu writes i for one am happy about the ranger s hiring of keenan it s too bad that they didn t hire him when smith fired nielsen maybe he could of staightened out the babies on this team and made the playoffs what this team needs is a little fire under their butts reading through most of these hockey news i don t see many ranger fans writing i m new to this system and a big hockey fan and a long suffering ranger fan but remember suffering builds character i have some final questions about the way the team was handled in that last dreadful stretch knowing they needed offensive help from the blueline why didn t we see mike hurlbut who played pretty well when he was called up when leetch first went down why is joe kocur playing every night he is not bob probert who is tough but also can play how come paul broten is relegated to street clothes for the end of the season at least he plays with some heart and character draws penalties and plays when he s on the ice was he in the doghouse for some reason joe cirella enough said ranger fans may be suffering but we re some of the most loyal unlike islander fans who only show up when the team wins as far as the stanley cup goes i think there s only one team that can test pittsburgh and that s detroit this would be the most entertaining and hard fought series mario is amazing kurt i think joe kocus should play every night he is a big physical guy and he gets the fans into the game with some big hits both checks and fists its a big advantage to get the crowd going plus he helps protect the other players notice there are very few fights when kocur is on the ice unless he is it i have seen people start to go after essa tikkanen only to go slinking away when kocur steps in i think he is big asset but should be third line and special situation only play this is fast becoming a game without the goons i admit kocur may get the fans into the game but surely they would rather see broten taking a pass from kovalev and scoring a breakaway goal to put the rangers up magic goals in the third period rather than seeing kocur take another stupid penalty and the rangers giving up another powerplay goal the rangers need another top flight center who can take the pressure off messier and the first line nemchinov is a perfect third line center so who goes beezer or richter kurt
rec.sport.hockey	binghampton rangers playoff games does anyone know if msg will televise any of the binghampton rangers playoff games even taped replays would be nice
rec.sport.hockey	re pens broadcasters in article mfqk o awn sskqm andrew cmu edu nathan robert peters np andrew cmu edu writes rumor has it here in pittsburgh that there is going to be a penguins broadcasting change before next season according to the rumor the kbl leadership the company the broadcasts the pen s games wants to limit loved broadcaster mike lange to radio only and hire don cherry as his broadcast partner this would mean paul stiegerwald would be fired good riddance does anyone know anything about this lange is a fun broadcaster to listen to and pens games wouldn t be the same without him also i hear cherry doesn t have high opinions of lemieux ulf sammuelsson or jaromir jagr how is he supposed to broadcast their games i believe that the large number of digits on his paycheck and it would not be binary would help don to be a fan of ulf jaro and mario nate peters lifetime penguins fan even from before they were the best kevin l stamber purdue university top reasons the pittsburgh penguins won the patrick division a strong desire to get the cup back to your neighborhood eat n park where there s always something special cooking
rec.sport.hockey	re buffalo boston defense i m personally expecting moog blue played fairly decent alright spectacular at times in his a game but moog has the experience what did blue have going for him nothing what would happen in a tie game the prssure is then on the goal tender to insure that you keep the puck out at the very least until your team scores blue didn t face that kind of pressure on tuesday the bruins will come out storming that is for sure i really think that this series is up to buffalo boston except for two bad passes in game one really hasn t played that bad as a believer is statistics you know that your going to get the puck by fuhr sooner or later just keep shooting there game plan is sound but they need to take the lead first and control the tempo imho pat ellis p s go bruins go umaine black bears number hockey east regulars season champions hockey east tournament champions paul kariya hobey baker award winner ncaa div hockey tournament champions m a i n e ggggooooooo bbbllluueeee
rec.sport.hockey	re oilers for sale golchowy alchemy chem utoronto ca gerald olchowy writes the probability is that the oilers are not going anywhere gerald look at what happened to the stars they are off to dallas pocklington has chosen this moment to make his last stand is because he is at the moment of maximum advantage the provincial government is months away from a provincial election it is the moment when he has maximum power to convince northlands to give him a better arena deal or a better purchase price and it is before the nhl s new collective agreement with the players which might involve some enhanced revenue sharing gerald the alberta election is slated fou june unless something re ally goes wrong this time pocklington could end up being the embarassment of klein if he goes ahead with his ultimatum pocklington is many things stupid is not one of them gerald people still have an axe to grind with this guy i cannot see him staying for long he can dictate terms because other cities will pay his price if edmonton doesn t but the people in edmonton won t budge trust me on this one edmonton has already up its international airport and surrendered supremacy to calgary and over the next few years edmonton is going to take a hard hit from government cutbacks it will screw itself beyond recogniton if it manages to find a way to lose its hockey team too because northlands wants to continue to use the oilers to subsidize horse racing northlands won t budge ccording to one of the board members bruce campbell however in this case about the long term financial viability of the oilers the fact is that pocklington is basically right regardless of who owns the team and it is right to provoke the crisis now before the team accumulates millions of dollars in losses or becomes habitually uncompetitive because of lack of money i haven t heard anything but attendance at the coliseum was the lowest this year hint hint remeber what i said about a personal vendetta sather has done his job the oilers are poised to be competitive again very soon al strachan one of the most knowledgeble hockey writers in canada in a post mortem of the oilers season in the globe and mail recently agrees with me gerald don t blame sather this battle between the peole and pocklington started in and got worst when pocklington sold gretzky there were days when you can shake the hand of pocklington when he was respectalbe i use to do so in season but those days are goe gerald btw when following up please delete name of posting writer dave shariff yadallee b sc econ math u of alberta yadalle amisk cs ualberta ca god save the queen god bless us all remember jesus saves lives from eternal damnation newfoundland keep good old clyde vote liberal
rec.sport.hockey	re leafs now favoured in article apr ramsey cs laurentian ca maynard ramsey cs laurentian ca roger maynard writes once again the leafs overcame the red wings in what was possibly the most exciting game played yet in this playoff year potvin was solid and wendel completely dominated probert gilmour as usual was the best player on the ice and to those who claim that andreychuk fades in the playoffs please take note andreychuk is averaging a goal a game stars andreychuk goals wendel all over probert probert all over everyone else todd gill also played an excellent game we can t say enough about doug gilmour when he is right all is well gilmour brings to mind davey keon from the previous leaf dynasty predictions so far on track nyi over buffalo and leafs over la kings leafs over nyi in the final i can t let this pass if the islanders get past pitts assuming the isles beat the caps god willing them i m sorry the isles will crush the leafs flame shields up of course no one asked me i always interject my opinions on matters i have no concern over go islanders down to go go jets for cordially as always maynard ramsey cs laurentian ca so many morons rm and so little time
rec.sport.hockey	re bernie nicholls what a man from matthew rush but he s starting to push it over the edge imho of course holik s chop to barrasso s neck wasn t too sportsmanlike either it seems that he was following the the only way to beat the penguins is to injure them philosophy it s pretty obvious that holik s hitting barrasso was an accident he was even apologizing for it immediately before the penguins all jumped on him ralph
rec.sport.hockey	re hawks in article netnews upenn edu ldecock mail sas upenn edu luke decock wrote the only player the hawks have lost because they screwed up is peluso the hapless blues lost stevens and gave away oates okay so the blues won this you must be kidding right in losing stevens the blues got shanahan and kept joseph then they traded oates for janney as a hawks fan you have got to respect those hapless names lets see who scored the game winning overtime goal in the th game luke decock ldecock mail sas upenn eu david howarth howarth sbctri sbc com southwestern bell technology resources inc advanced technology laboratory pine rm st louis mo
rec.sport.hockey	fuhr deserves credit was sabres sweep fuhr s role in article revcrinneij shelley u washington edu lzuo byron u washington edu joseph writes in article randolin polisci umn edu randolin polisci umn edu robert andolina writes many people have suggested that fuhr s play is the only reason that the sabres beat the bruins while fuhr was a critical factor i would not overlook the fact that the sabres finally got some scoring from people other than mogilny and lafontaine khmylev sweeney hawerchuck etc indeed lafontaine played hurt and didn t score many goals also the team played better defense although not great than in the regular season fuhr deserves a lot of credit but not all of it robert a i agree with this i also think fuhr s contribution for sabres s win is just the same as many palyers in the team mogilny had six goals in four games including two goals for the great comeback in the final win after fuhr had left the key for sabres s win over boston is whole team s strong commitment as an underdog and all their talent players including mogilny and fuhr i think that grant fuhr deserves more credit than that while it s true that the entire sabres team played very well i still believe that if it wasn t for grant fuhr the series would now be tied he virtually stole games and for the sabres in both of these games fuhr stood on his head to give the sabres the chance to win especially in game fuhr made a series of huge stops in the third period when the score was tied even in game when the sabres won the score seemed to indicate that the sabres dominated however if it hadn t been for fuhr the sabres wouldn t have been up i think it was through the nd period and the bruins wouldn t have had to open up the game thereby allowing mogilny to score the third goal on a breakaway to salt away the game there is no doubt in my mind that fuhr was the critical factor in the victory in my opinion neely oates and juneau played as well as lafontaine mogilny and hawerchuk the sabres did get extraordinary efforts from hannan sweeney wood and khmylev compared to that of the bruins checkers however the bruins defense imo played better than the sabres defense the sabres have ken sutton playing a regular shift afterall the difference in the series was fuhr who outplayed andy moog gary go sabres
rec.sport.hockey	re minnesota shame in article c xpu md constellation ecn uoknor edu hunter nsslsun nssl uoknor edu steve hunter writes i m a hockey fan from way back and maintain an interest as best i can here in the hockey hinterlands oklahoma i m hoping i can get a reading from some of you about the move of the north stars to dallas i ve been under the impression that minnesota was one of or possibly the hockey state in the u s so why is the team moving to a city in texas is it that the owner is a greedy self serving profiteer or were the stars really not making a profit or was the city or whoever owned the arena doing some price gouging opinions please well as a hockey fan i think it s terrible it s one thing to say hey let s give a hockey team to cities that don t have one that s fine it s entirely another to say okay let s take a team from a thriving hockey town and move it of course none of us will ever know the real inside story but from what i know a group of minneapolis businessmen told green repeatedly that they would purchase the remaining season tickets to get to the level that green wanted yet he refused every time it s pretty obvious that he was determined to get out of minneapolis at any cost and use the season tickets thing as an excuse i was fortunate enough to get to the penultimate game and the fans were great people were tailgating and playing roller hockey in the parking lot before the game the attendance was so full as to have sro and the whole atmosphere in the centre was terrific minnesota is hockey usa how the nhl can so blithely let the major league team from there move away is beyond me i only hope they get a new team soon just my ali ali procrastination lemer i gave nhl commissioner gary bettman a puck columbia university nyc once he spent the rest of the day trying to phoenix ctr columbia edu open it pat williams gm orlando magic be kind to animals hug a hockey player
rec.sport.hockey	re nhl letter quite long in article apr sol ctr columbia edu phoenix startide ctr columbia edu ali lemer writes hey everyone didja hear that we re fanatics now cool can we get our own acre compound replete with weapon and ammo caches who wants a barbeque ali i can t believe sh t like this gets any attention in this group during the playoffs ali you re a blabbering moron at least you could ve waited till the end of the playoffs to start your dumb letter campaign ppv mark
rec.sport.hockey	ahl playoff results concrete well i got the scores for sat s games ahl playoff scores first round home team in caps games played on sat baltimore binghamton rochester utica springfield providence series stati plural of status adirondack defeated cdi springfield defeated providence binghamton tied w baltimore rochester defeated utica st john s leads moncton cape breton defeated fredericton bri farenell farenebt craft camp clarkson edu ahl ecac and boston bruins contact for rec sport hockey adirondack red wings calder cup champs clarkson hockey ecac tournament champs glens falls high hockey ny division ii state champs ahl fans join the ahl mailing list ahl news request andrew cmu edu
rec.sport.hockey	calder cup playoff schedule full calder cup playoff schedule and results home team in caps if necesary first round springfield indians vs providence bruins gm springfield providence gm springfield providence gm providence springfield gm providence springfield gm springfield providence gm springfield providence springfield wins series cd islanders vs adirondack red wings gm adirondack cdi gm adirondack cdi gm adirondack cdi gm adirondack cdi adirondack wins series baltimore skipjacks at binghamton rangers gm baltimore binghamton gm binghamton baltimore gm binghamton baltimore gm baltimore binghamton gm baltimore at binghamton gm binghmaton at baltimore gm baltimore at binghamton utica devils vs rochester americans gm utica rochester ot gm rochester utica gm rochester utica gm rochester utica ot gm rochester utica rochester wins series moncton hawks vs st john s maple leafs gm st john s moncton at halifax gm st john s moncton at halifax gm st john s moncton gm moncton st john s ot gm moncton vs st john s at halifax gm st john s at moncton gm moncton vs st john s at halifax cape breton oilers vs fredericton canadiens gm fredericton cape breton ot gm cape breton fredericton gm cape breton fredericton gm cape breton fredericton ot gm cape breton won bri farenell farenebt craft camp clarkson edu ahl ecac and boston bruins contact for rec sport hockey adirondack red wings calder cup champs clarkson hockey ecac tournament champs glens falls high hockey ny division ii state champs ahl fans join the ahl mailing list ahl news request andrew cmu edu
rec.sport.hockey	wc scores and standings april world championships in germany group a standings munich group b standings dortmund gp w t l gf ga p gp w t l gf ga p canada czech republic russia finland sweden usa italy germany switzerland france austria norway april italy russia norway germany sweden austria usa czech republic april canada switzerland russia austria finland france april sweden canada czech republic germany switzerland italy finland usa april germany france italy sweden czech republic norway april switzerland russia usa france austria canada norway finland april switzerland austria germany finland april russia sweden czech republic france canada italy usa norway april sweden switzerland finland czech republic russia canada germany usa april austria italy france norway playoffs april quarterfinals a b a b april quarterfinals a b a b april relegation a b a b april semifinals a b a b a b a b may relegation bronze medal game may final staffan axelsson etxonss ufsa ericsson se r s h contact for swedish hockey
rec.sport.hockey	wc results april world championships in germany group a results russia switzerland st rus alexei yashin rus alexei yashin nd rus ilia biakin rd rus andrei khomutov rus ilia biakin rus sergei sorokin penalties rus min min game penalty swi min referee rob hearn usa attendance canada austria st can shayne corson can rod brind amour can paul kariya can gerry galley can eric lindros can rod brind amour nd can eric lindros can eric lindros rd can brian savage can brian benning can geoff sanderson penalties can min aut min attendance usa france st fra antoine richer usa adam burt usa rob gaudreau usa jeff lazaro nd usa adam burt rd usa shjon podein usa rob gaudreau penalties usa min fra min referee darren loraas canada attendance finland norway st nd rd fin juha riihijarvi fin kari harila penalties fin min nor min referee sven erik sold sweden attendance the best goal scorers eric lindros can rod brind amour can dieter hegen ger andrei khomutov rus geoff sanderson can ilia biakin rus adam burt usa viacheslav bykov rus jiri dolezal cze mike gartner can rob gaudreau usa patrik juhlin swe frank pajonkowski fra bernd truntschka ger jarkko varvio fin alexei yashin rus some wc stats fastest goal in a wc game after first face off seconds steve larmer canada in a game vs sweden ended boris michailov ussr most consecutive wc games without a loss ussr ussr canada ussr canada staffan axelsson etxonss ufsa ericsson se r s h contact for swedish hockey
rec.sport.hockey	re if oilers go to hamilton in article apr spang camosun bc ca ua freenet victoria bc ca tom moffat writes if the oilers move to hamilton what division will they play in tom moffat victoria b c canada as a guess hamilton would be put into the midwest with either winnipeg or dallas moving to the pacific bill b hart macsch com
rec.sport.hockey	re minnesota shame i ve been under the impression that minnesota was one of or possibly the hockey state in the u s so why is the team moving to a city in texas is it that the owner is a greedy self serving profiteer or were the stars really not making a profit or was the city or whoever owned the arena doing some price gouging norman green claims that he has lost money over the last three years that he has owned the team when he bought the team it seemed kind of obvious that he was going to have to deal with a few years in the red before the team started making a profit again he gave the impression that he was willing to do so he claimed two years ago that the team needed to average only fans per game in order to pull a profit but this season the team averaged fans despite increasd ticket prices i think the team s attendence and play was clearly in an upward trend which leaves me dumbfounded as to how he could ignore that in deciding to move he was even offered the many concessions he rudely demanded such as guaranteed season ticket sales cheap rent at the other two arenas in town etc oh well i guess the bottom line is green wanted immediate huge returns in dallas and wasn t willing to wait another year or so in mn dallas gave green a pretty stellar deal to play there although i feel minnesota s was quite reasonable and he also has some cronies down there as well all this means is that minnesota is without an nhl team for a year or two too bad for the nhl kea
rec.sport.hockey	re winnipeg vs vancouver in article c p q unixhub slac stanford edu grogers ravel slac stanford edu greg rogers writes mkr stud hsn no morten kristiansen writes read this all you canucks fan out there winnipeg are going to kick vancouvers butts so badly they are not going to be able to sit down for weeks and no this is not a joke a prediction before the fourth game in winnipeg winnipeg vancouver selanne steen score a couple of goals each winnipeg to win stanley cup playoffs to all you jets fanatics ha ha ha to normal jets fans it was a pretty good fourth game more physical play than i ve seen in the first three games these moronic posts that have continued throughout the year about how the jets will cremeate the canucks and selanne will smash bure into the boards is so full of it why don t you take a cue fromm daryl and just wait till its over before you make more of a fool of yourself i m not going to predict anything about the canucks they are up and are coming back home but i m not going swing any it around until the series is wrapped up tony bravo tony i too am sick of all the mindless fanatical blind faith jets fans who could prpbably predict the end of the world more accurately than the coutcome of a playoff series now i will admit that i am a mindless fanatica blind faith canucks fan but unlike those from winterpeg i do not need to vent my spleen upon the world as to how great my team is i know i have confidence in them and that s enough granted the jets finished the season hot and the canucks were having trouble but vancouver has built themselves a reputation for being a playoff team just ask any flames fan they may not win every series but they alway fight to the end i ll admit that last year was not great but if they combine the work ethic of the past with the new tallent of the present they will be tough to beat note i did not say they would pummel every team they meet and destroy the greatest player playing today now like any canucks fan i would love to see them take the cup i feel they have a good chance to make it out of the smythe and a shot at detroit i can t see them losing to st louis if pittsburgh makes it to the cup i d have to put my money on them yes even if they re facing the canucks if buffalo montreal or quebec beat pittsburgh i d choose the winner of vancuover and detroit to take the cup oh and one parting note for the jets fans just how many times has winnepeg made it to the finals go canucks greg devorski unfortunately helped to taint an otherwise brilliant display by maclean the canucks tied up the jets so tightly that i thought that they were mailing them btw greg next time don t fall asleep in geography class it s pretty sad when a fellow in norway can spell winnipeg properly and a guy in north america can t one more thing how long has vancouver been in the nhl how many championships do they have oh yeah and i can go to the arena and see not one not two but six championship banners hanging from the rafters stanley cup banners and avco cup banners my nhl guide says that vancouver has won the cup once as many times as the rockin town of kenora has won it daryl turner r s h contact for the winnipeg jets internet umturne ccu umanitoba ca fidonet or please route through tkachuk over to zhamnov up to sel nne he shoots he scores the jets win the cup the jets win the cup essensa for vezina housley for norris sel nne for calder
rec.sport.hockey	caps postseason fortunes okay the caps again are about to break out the golf clubs but before they do does anyone have the history of the washington capitals futility record in the playoffs i remember that terry s first year was the first year that the caps finally made it to the third round but before under brian i noticed that every other year the caps got to the second round and the years in between they didn t make it past the first round is this trend continuning the admiral a hopeless caps fan p s we still remember that ot loss to the islanders aurggghhhhhhhhh admiral steve c liu internet address admiral jhunix hcf jhu edu world champions baltimore orioles why not series in the yards stanley cup champions washington capitals the bangles are the greatest female rock band that ever existed this sig has been brought to you by frungy the sport of kings my god man drilling holes through his head is not the answer dr mccoy
rec.sport.hockey	faq for this group could someone please tell me how i can access the faq for this group i m relatively new and would like to read it but although i ve seen it mentioned i ve yet to see it posted is it archived somewhere or does someone post it to the group on a regular basis or is it distributed on demand i d appreciate any help anyone can give me thanks in advance mary p s please respond via email as the articles expire within hours on my mail system and i don t always get a chance to read everything thanks mary blumenstock mblumens itsmail hamilton edu go rangers next year of course
rec.sport.hockey	re leafs vs wings in article hydra gatech edu gtd a prism gatech edu hrivnak writes in article apr mks com chuck mks com chuck lownie writes potvin by the way has played very well he kept toronto in the game last night during those penalties in the first period by making great saves but they did end up getting to him in the second the guy has a gaa of in the playoffs and he s played very well hahahahahaa what a joke did you watch the games
rec.sport.hockey	re leafs vs wings in article bb b lmarsha cms cc wayne edu lmarsha cms cc wayne edu laurie marshall writes in article apr mks com chuck mks com chuck lownie writes in last nights game toronto received five penalties detroit none if which game were you watching didn t you see the third period when the wings had penalties called on them and then a delayed penalty the leafs had a man advantage for about a minute and a man advantage for another minute or two and the leafs still couldn t score and i wonder how the leafs scored a powerplay goal if according to you they never had a powerplay in the detroit paper today it said there were penalties called in last night s game and you re saying detroit had none of those penalties i m guessing you only watched the first period i have to admitt the leafs did get alot of penalties in that period where as the wings didn t get many if any at all haven t looked at the box scores yet but the ref more than made up for it in the third period laurie marshall wayne state university detroit michigan go wings my apologies for the typo i meant the wings had power plays in the first period and the leafs none as well my point isn t that the refs were biased just that they were calling a lot of penalties which works to the benefit of the wings having the ref call a whole bunch of penalties against one team then calling a bunch against the other to make up for it takes a lot away from what could have been a great game
rec.sport.hockey	switzerland at wc what did happen to the swiss team last year they reached the semi final and now after matches no points and even no goals after the against italy it seems they lost any hope and were overrun by the russian team now it seems that they have to work hard not to be relegated to the b level does anybody know if this wc is the qualification tournement for the olympic games in lillehammer or are some teams already qualified for them hopp schwiiz daniel
rec.sport.hockey	re cbc canadian for espn in article apr uwovax uwo ca uwovax uwo ca writes hooray i hear on tsn that the jets have won a game selanne getting a hat trick of course here in god s country read ontario i couldn t see that game nor any other in the van wpg series so far because our beloved cbc figures no one out here cares about this series which has looked pretty competitve so far on monday and wednesday nights cbc could have shown the toronto detroit game done the news then picked up winnipeg vancouver they didn t tonight you guessed it toronto detroit the news not the end of the jets game then calgary la so if it s hockey night in canada why can t this ontarian see one of the two series with two canadian teams is this too much to ask paul badertscher uwovax uwo ca i d like to echo these sentiments this is the worst coverage i can ever remember seeing on cbc as soon as the game ends i can count to and by that time they ve signed off the air no post game interviews no updating of late scores nothin tsn is really putting cbc to shame i only hope the later round coverage improves i mean who really wants to see cbc primetime news instead of hockey my darren darren reiniger reiniger ug cs dal ca arishem ac dal ca centre for marine geology dalhousie university halifax n s canada people who wonder where this generation is going should remind themselves where it came from in the first place
rec.sport.hockey	re stewart homered the wings in article andy bgsu edu m bgsu edu andy bgsu edu ryan writes roger maynard wrote once again the leafs overcame the red wings in what was possibly the most exciting game played yet in this playoff year perhaps it was the most exciting game played yet that you have seen for most of us who watch teams around the league with interest and objectivity it was nowhere near the most exciting game paul stewart called the single worst game i ve seen this year federov s major was obvious and i don t dispute it however chaisson s penalty shouldn t even have been a penalty let alone a major and a game misconduct the minute game misc call is for high sticking only there is no blood penalty just because chaisson barely touched the poor sap and he hit the dasher and bled profusely doesn t mean it is a penalty unfortunately the instant replay is not used on hits at first i immediately thought and a game because the hit looked much more severe from an intent to injure perspective than it was after seeing the replay i d say it deserved minutes for boarding it was careless any way you slice it if stewart had replay i do not think chaisson would have gotten and the game in the second period behind potvin probert had the puck and was going to get out front and was tackled i couldn t believe the no call this no call was bullshit i agree i admire stewart for letting them go but probert looked up saying where the hell is the penalty i ve never seen probert whine either he doesn t need to now if probie decides to put wendel through the boards he s probably gone right i don t remember who on the leafs touched the puck on racine s shot towards the end of the game seconds left but stewart called it out of play last touched by detroit everybody in the garden including the linesmen knew it yzerman protested but stewart just laughed and really homered the wings this was also bullshit but once again no replay it was rouse btw i m really pissed that the linesmen didn t correct the call either it s b s when the officials refuse to admit they made a mistake but when it all comes down to it wings played like shit yes the calls you describe should not have the difference in a detroit loss i picked the leafs to win game on emotion and adrenalin but the wings have no excuses for game they should be the superior team the call that pissed me off the most was anderson getting for putting his stick in somebody s eye that was the most dangerous stick infraction i have seen in a long time and everybody in the damn league knows he s an asshole when it comes to stickwork four lousy minutes bullshit call murray should send the tape in or a wing should hammer the living shit out of him dchhabra stpl ists ca
rec.sport.hockey	canada after preliminary round at world champioships team canada defeated russia to finish the priliminary round unbeaten at scoring for the canadians were kevin dineen of the flyers eric lindros also of the flyers and paul cariya of the maine black bears cariya has put on quite a show at the worlds he is sure to be drafted in the top this summer at the nhl entry draft canada defeated italy and austria before meeting the russians on sunday the canadians now face finland in the quarter finals on tuesday kevin white white cc hollandc pe ca holland college ch town pei canada
rec.sport.hockey	leafs what happened how did the leafs turn it around i couldn t get the leaf games on the weekend in ca did the leaf defense wise up overnight did the leafs get in the slot or was it just fluke goals in a goalie duel did the wings turn off the jets or muscle what gives here i caught game on satellite i figured my leafs were washed this is a major turnaround very few predicted this how how how did it happen wing and leaf perspectives welcomed jake
rec.sport.hockey	re caps moving in berger chaos cs brandeis edu berger chaos cs brandeis edu writes i ve heard rumors recently from reliable sources that abe polin the moron who owns the washington capitals is looking to move the team after this season or next milwaukee was mentioned as the team s potential destination the person who told me this is strongly affiliated with the nhl and has been extremely accurate in the past with news of this sort does anyone know if this is so or has heard anything of the sort with baltimore s ahl team gone that would leave the area with only an echl franchise in baltimore not good thanks david why dc baltimore is one of the top media markets the only thing the nhl seems to care about these days they ve been doing far better than the nba bullets at the gate for the last five years the team has been a perennial contender and fan support has been good to excellent why should pollin move to city that s five times smaller but has as many teams in other pro sports i don t get it david marcu
rec.sport.hockey	finland norway in wc finns had to do their best last night when they played against norway in world champs after two periods the score was still this game was quite much similar to the first game finland played against france the norwegian goalie was very good and a bit lucky too in the third period juha riihij rvi scored from a rebound the time was around mins or so the second goal was scored by kari harila who shot straight from a faceoff behind the nowwegian goalie saku koivu the year old center got his first point of this tournament saku koivu played very well througout the game and he was awarded the best player of the game prize despite the fact that he is quite small in size he handles the puck very well and is a fast skater i think that we will hear from this guy in the future
rec.sport.hockey	re nhl letter quite long in catcherc j f netcom com catcher netcom com paul w francisco writes as she said the letter is addressed to bettman the post which though having pretty much the same content is an entirely different entity was addressed to all when she puts the letter in the mail i doubt it will say to all i figure she wanted to let people here see what was in it since it is a topic that interests a lot of folks here that s an entirely different purpose than sending the letter to bettman and it is a damn good thing that she did post it since she claims to represent people in rec sport hockey unfortunately the largest computer networks in the world phrase is a definition of the internet not a group as a whole that she claims to represent as her sole purpose in mentioning the net as steve gallichio has already pointed out is to lend weight to her points through association with the internet there is no other reason to mention the internet this is misrepresentation and if the internet was a private corporation alison would be leaving herself wide open to all kinds of civil suits for the business of whether or not it is large it is large compared to say the number of folks on r s h who are sending a letter to thank him for changing the names at least to this point and just for my this is not a letter it is a petition claiming to represent a large proportion of rec sport hockey users and by implication a significant number of internet users names can in no way be considered a large proportion of rec sport hockey which while we have no way of counting actual readership is accessible to hundreds of thousands of people persons is no more than a fly s fart in a windstorm own curiosity i thought i d look up the official definition of large in the dictionary it reads large having more than usual power capacity or scope exceeding most other things of like kind in quantity or size gee you looked up large in the dictionary what next two syllable words now i have no idea how many letters bettman may have gotten on the issue or how many people may have signed them people may be up there thereby validating definition i would also wager that the geographical range of signatures is quite large which would give it a large scope let me suggest that the only place you are likely to envy the magnitude of is when you are looking for ways to beef up your iq scores he might be impressed by the size of the list of names why would he be impressed with this unless it were large as i said he might be impressed by the size of the list of names but it would have to be considerably larger but even this definition does not account for the original context from which you lifted this sentence i personally don t know whether or not i agree with the letter i have very mixed emotions about it i like the names as they are and don t think they make it that difficult to learn the game but there might be a shred of validity to the change well then what the hell is your point you don t really know if you have an opinion about the hockey issue but you do know that you don t like me is that it cordially as always maynard ramsey cs laurentian ca so many morons rm and so little time
rec.sport.hockey	re pens fans reactions susan dart writes amongst penguins fans there seems to be an inner calm that i ve never experienced before this year with the pens the players and the fans have so much confidence in the team this year we re savoring every game and saving our energy for the stanley cup that s a good way to put it it s a quiet confidence i don t feel like i have to defend this team anymore the devils are a puzzle to me they have long been one of the few teams i always dreaded playing their d isn t quite what it used to be but they still usually play us pretty tough i just can t figure it out at least last night they mounted an attack watching some of the devils players being interviewed i could see in their faces and eyes that they really don t have any confidence they are left speechless when asked what more they can to do to beat the pens they act as though they know it s a hopeless task bernie nichols was interviewed after game on the late news he was shaking his head in disbelief over barrasso saying that tommy is like another defenseman out there and how difficult it is playing against him then he got this far away look on his face his voice started trailing off and he said it just isn t right it just isn t fair and he tried to muster a smile i m really impressed with bowman s coaching tactics he s had an answer for every move that brooks has thrown at the pens as far as coaching goes a pens islanders match up should be pretty good one guy i feel sorry for in all of this so far is chris terreri i m sure tom barrasso knows how he feels for so long tommy would look up and not have a teammate in sight terreri s teammates really left him out in the cold in the first two games mom
rec.sport.hockey	flames final stats and playoff news news for the first time all season the flames are now injury free the only player remaining on the limp is center carey wilson who even when healthy is not a major part of the team trent yawney did not score a goal all season until the last regular season game against san jose he potted his first of the year in that game and has also scored goals in both game and game against los angeles thoughts on game the flames played horribly in dropping the first game of their series with los angeles on sunday afternoon they seemed more interested in throwing big hits than in scoring goals they physically dominated the kings but that was the only area they dominated in the game plan was to rush the net and try and take advantage of a young inexperienced l a defence and the shaky kings goaltending but those plans fell by the wayside while the flames conducted a steady march to the penalty box particularily stupid was theoren fleury taking a five minute major and a game misconduct for slamming warren rychel s face into the dasher while rychel was on his knees goaltender mike vernon played well and could not really be faulted for the loss despite his well publicized poor record in afternoon games he got very little support from his defence in clearing the front of the net and sweeping away rebounds in fact marty mcsorley s goal actually went in off chris dahlquist s skate in front of the net thoughts on game the flames came back strong in the second game evidently aware of the potentially fatal consequences of losing both the first two games on home ice the first period was fairly even with the edge going to the kings but calgary came out strong in the second period and simply dominated the kings scoring five goals to take a lead they never relinquished en route to a win the deciding factors in this game were faceoffs and special teams calgary dominated on faceoffs as they did in game but they were able to make better use of the won faceoffs in this game than they did in the first one calgary also went for on the powerplay while l a only went for and gave up a shorthanded goal to joel otto l a s powerplay goal also came late in the game with the outcome already decided the kings powerplay failed them when they needed it most in the st and nd periods the flames lost rw greg paslawski with a suspected shoulder injury when he was leveled by alexei zhitnik right after scoring calgary s th goal charlie huddy left the game for the kings with a groin injury the game was marred by stupidity in the last minute first craig berube of calgary took a five minute major for fighting plus a game misconduct for instigating when he went after tony granato for no apparent reason granato drew a minor for some strange reason turtling perhaps this was followed seconds later by warren rychel drawing a major minor and game misconduct for hitting frank musil in the face with his stick and then instigating a fight musil got a fighting major for some similarily strange reason hardy and yawney went toe to toe and both got double minors gregson thought that musil turtling amounted to fighting but that yawney and hardy throwing punches at each other was just roughing where s this guy from upcoming games friday april at l a sunday april at l a tuesday april home to l a thursday april at l a if necessary saturday may home to l a if necessary injuries c carey wilson indefinite with recurring knee injuries dec calgary flames final regular season statistics pos name gp g a pts pim rw theoren fleury c robert reichel d gary suter lw gary roberts c joe nieuwendyk rw sergei makarov d al macinnis c joel otto lw paul ranheim rw greg paslawski rw ron stern lw brent ashton lw chris lindberg d roger johansson d trent yawney d frank musil c brian skrudland lw craig berube d michel petit d kevin dahl c carey wilson i d chris dahlquist d alexander godynyuk rw todd harkins lw paul kruse g jeff reese d greg smyth g mike vernon rw thomas forslund c shawn heaphy lw patrick lebeau g andrei trefilov name gp min gaa w l t en so ga sa save mike vernon jeff reese andrei trefilov team totals
rec.sport.hockey	re oiler s rumour team moving press conference next week in apr alchemy chem utoronto ca golchowy alchemy chem utoronto ca gerald olchowy writes so what s stopping pocklington from going to a bank and borrowing million dollars to pay off his treasury branch loans i was reading according to the recent tsn report peter puck is not paying any interest on the treasury branch loans that s a lot of green somewhere than pocklington business have gross revenues of about million per year i don t think he would have much problem borrowing from his visa to pay off his mastercard if he wanted to again according to tsn virtually everything that peter puck has already has liens against it of course we can t really be sure of this pocklington is at the point of maximum advantage right now and he is basically right in that northlands which is a creature of the city of edmonton must give him a better deal in the era of escalating salaries northlands and the city benefitted as much as he did during the eighties from the oilers and wealth generated by the oilers success was shared but the finanical viability of small market teams has radically changed in the space of a couple of years and for the oilers to remain viable and competitive they need much more of the revenue stream from concessions parking and building advertising as most every other professional sports franchise in north america has what was once a fair agreement that shared the wealth is now northlands sucking the blood out of the oilers franchise the oiler rationale regarding the renegotiation of player contracts is that a deal is a deal sather has spouted this repeatedly pocklinton has a contract with northlands until a deal is a deal perhaps if he included the income he has received from his sale of assets players such as gretzky and the income he has received in expansion fees with his revenues he wouldn t be losing money he has admitted pulling this money out of the oiler franchise to put into his other businesses the oilers have paid several times over what the coliseum cost to build and bring edmonton prestige and recognition throughout the world that is essentially priceless to nickel and dime the oilers just so northlands can use revenue sucked out of the oilers to subsidize their horse racing operations is insanity i think that pocklington has received ample provincial subsidization i can t really blame him for going after municipal subsidization but he is certainly not entitled to it pocklington has sucked revenue out of the oilers in order to prop up his failing business interests pocklington is not to be trusted i doubt very much that any oiler team will ever again make the playoffs under pocklington s stewardship as soon as a player shows himself to be a competent nhl er and expects to be paid accordingly he is shipped off for younger players and or draft picks cordially as always maynard ramsey cs laurentian ca so many morons rm and so little time
rec.sport.hockey	another travesty at the joe louis detroit april most knowledgable observers once again watched in shock as the detroit red wings again beat the best goaltender in the world six times en route to another easy victory over the best team in the nhl for the best goaltender in the world felix potvin six was a bad number as he surrendered six goals and collected six minutes in penalties in reponse to the goon tactics employed by the inferior red wings team alan p s we told you this would happen roger didn t we i love it
rec.sport.hockey	re nords habs in o t we was robbed in article apr vm mcgill ca jbe jbe musicb mcgill ca writes aargh paul stewart is the worst and most biased ref presently in the nhl he called a total of penalties on the habs and one on the nordiques the nords penalty came in o t stewart being an ex nordique himself was looking to call penalties on the habs while letting the nords get away with murder we was robbed if my powerplay was as bad as montreal s i d be thanking stewart for calling as few penalties as possible quebec s powerplay is lethal and it is to their advantage to have a penalty filled game where they can clean up with their superior powerplay montreal really lost that game and game because patrick roy is well on his way to having another one of his trademark awful playoffs the man is truly overrated quebec has scored six goals on roy and four perhaps five were quite stoppable alan
rec.sport.hockey	re wc results april in article r c t access digex net steveg cadkey com steve gallichio writes what is the policy regarding players and the minor league playoffs versus wc i know that the rangers are holding back kovalev zubov and andersson for binghamton but i also know that the whalers wanted michael nylander to play for springfield while nylander wanted to play for sweden the whalers allowed the nhl to decide and the nhl chose the wcs how does this differ from the rangers and oilers did the whalers have to go through the league or could they have forced nylander to play in springfield as long as a player is under contract to an organization he is obligated to play only where that organization tells him to play or gives him permission to play the rangers are certainly within their rights to force zubov and andersson to report to binghampton it certainly does reflect a lack of class on the part of the ranger organization however is having binghampton win the calder cup really more important to them than keeping their players happy alan
rec.sport.hockey	re nhl team captains and while we are on the subject has a captain ever been traded resigned or been striped of his title during the season any other team captain trivia would be appreciated brad mccrimmon was the captain of the flames when he was traded to detroit following the season this was during the off season though there s countless examples of captains being traded i m sure alan
rec.sport.hockey	re nhl letter roger s response in apr sol ctr columbia edu phoenix startide ctr columbia edu ali lemer writes gee what a coincidence he doesn t share my views perhaps that s why his name is not on the list to accompany the letter maybe i should write a disclaimer at the end mr bettman nota bene roger maynard does not agree with this letter i know he d be so worried otherwise you wouldn t have to put my name at the bottom if you simply appended a standard disclaimer that the opinions expressed in your petition in no way claim to represent the views of either rec sport hockey or the internet as a whole you have surely seen these disclaimers appended to the postings of many who work for companies and post on the net the disclaimers clever though some of them may be are there for a reason cordially as always maynard ramsey cs laurentian ca so many morons rm and so little time
rec.sport.hockey	re where s roger speaking of roger and ilk whatever happened to good ol gln i had him in my kill file since last year s playoffs and now that i ve moved to a new news reader which doesn t have kill files i find that he s gone i must admit however that unlike gln roger seems to know something about the game as long as the subject doesn t touch on the leafs ray skirsky rskirsky qualcomm com
rec.sport.hockey	re nhl letter roger s response in catcherc q lb netcom com catcher netcom com paul w francisco writes i wouldn t say that the letter clearly implies representation of the views of a group that you belong to it represents a subset that you don t belong to of a larger group which you do if only because this isn t a moderated group and you can bet that i wouldn t be the only one not belonging to the moderated group if it was moderated by an anally retentive little dullard like yourself look there are several ways to state an opposing viewpoint three that come to mind are as follows i hardly need you to presume to lecture me on how to communicate my points of view this posting that you have made is the second on the subject of the nhl letter and you have yet to communicate your opinion on the matter instead you content yourself with flaming me say it directly and obnoxiously result result moronic little busy bodies like yourself take advantage of a perceived opportunity to post rules for others to live by you realize that anything you say can and most certainly will be used against you well if using it against me means you are going to post something of significance then by all means go ahead i insist otherwise why don t you just go back to sleep or do whatever it is that you do when you are all by yourself cordially as always maynard ramsey cs laurentian ca so many morons rm and so little time
rec.sport.hockey	re why blues pulverized chicago weeniehawks sesrock andy bgsu edu stuart esrock writes hitting hawks tried to outmuscle blues but could not do it instead blues matched hawks hit for hit and crunched the shit out of them in game scud line shanahan butcher and zombo particularly took turns bashing favorite targets like chelios skating when the hawks tried to outskate blues they could not do that either nelson emerson finally showed up and skated circles around flat footed chicago defense hedican felsner ron wilson and others also proved that with old cement skaters like goulet and keith brown blues could lap chicago in a m relay race i agree with but you are wrong about in fact the only point where the hawks in any way matched the blues was when they quit trying to outmuscle and instead tried to outskate the blues they scored and took the lead too bad it was game and they then took some stupid penalties when the hawks skated they outskated the blues and took control ian neath there are four kinds of people in this world neath psych purdue edu cretins fools morons and lunatics u eco
rec.sport.hockey	re caps postseason fortunes in article rhddoinn l jhunix hcf jhu edu admiral jhunix hcf jhu edu steve c liu writes okay the caps again are about to break out the golf clubs but before they do does anyone have the history of the washington capitals futility record in the playoffs i remember that terry s first year was the first year that the caps finally made it to the third round but before under brian i noticed that every other year the caps got to the second round and the years in between they didn t make it past the first round is this trend continuning this is not a trend the caps were done goneso in five games and it saves us caps fans a lot of pain i mean it would be more painful if the caps were up watching them tumbled when they need one more win to clinch the series how many times have they done that in their history up in a five game series against the isles lost straight up against the isles lost straight up against the pens lost straight in other words when they were about to clinch with games to go they were a pitiful the lone wins being a sweep of philly in the win against the rangers in the patrick finals the only time they managed to get out of the division actually saturday s blown lead wasn t anything new we all know the caps are famous lead blowers in crucial playoff games examples game against the isles led after two lead series gave up goals in the rd period including the game winning goal in the last minute after that goal bobby carpenter botched a penalty shot series tied lost game a few days later game against the rangers led series led by in the rd period blew it lost game in ot and three consecutive games game against pittsurgh led series led by in nd period blew it and the series game against isles series tied led by after blew it game against isles trailed series led by in nd period blew it again when they were leading by in game i said to myself if they blew this lead the series is over they have lost all the momemtum the islanders believe they can come back no matter what the score is i am still waiting for a cap goalie who can carry the team who can completely shut down the opposition when they are hanging on their dear lives in a crucial game the admiral a hopeless caps fan p s we still remember that ot loss to the islanders aurggghhhhhhhhh well some teams such have it and some teams just don t when the caps were frustrated year in year out by the islanders i was thinking wait until potvin bossy trottier smith retire well they retired even though trottier was still able to haunt the caps on a pens uniform yet another generation of islanders were still doing the same thing well i guess it has nothing to do with the players edward lor lor cbnewsk att com
rec.sport.hockey	re winnipeg vs vancouver in article c p q unixhub slac stanford edu grogers ravel slac stanford edu greg rogers wrote i feel they have a good chance to make it out of the smythe and a shot at detroit i can t see them losing to st louis gee they lost to st louis twice this year maybe you should have your eyes checked go canucks greg go blues the rodney dangerfield team they get no respect except in chicago mabee david howarth howarth sbctri sbc com southwestern bell technology resources inc advanced technology laboratory pine rm st louis mo
rec.sport.hockey	re maybe next year hawks in article apr vax cns muskingum edu jbrown vax cns muskingum edu wrote belfour played well but i hardly saw any offense from any hawk what i want to know is where was roenick as far as i can tell he was right next to bassen don t you guys love it when people like me come out of the woodwork david howarth howarth sbctri sbc com southwestern bell technology resources inc advanced technology laboratory pine rm st louis mo
rec.sport.hockey	regular season pool nhl hockey pool by denis papp and chris stoochnoff rules pick players lw c rw ld rd goalies you may pick any players from any team points for players are as follows point per goal point per assist point per pim points for goalies are as follows points per win point per tie point per assist point per pim points per shutout points per goal entries entries can be sent by mail or ascii text file to chris stoochnoff or denis papp on hard wired bbs due date for entries is the first day of regular season play after that no more entries will be accepted unless it is just slightly late if that is the case there will be a small penalty applied to the team internet users can send email to dpapp muskwa ucs ualberta ca prizes prizes have not yet been considered they could range from nothing to free time on hard wired bbs or even something else if you have any suggestions please feel free to put your two cents worth in one idea is to get whoever is willing to to submit an equal amount of money and that will go to be the prize money the prize money will go to the top team who has submitted to the prize pool a list of all people who submit money will be posted as well as those who didnt if it is done this way cost the cost absolutely nothing there is absolutely no fee for this pool note if you have any questions please feel free to send them to denis papp or myself chris stoochnoff the players positions ie brett hull is right wing will be decided by the year book i will be using so if you do not know a certain players position or you are not completely sure what position he plays then ask me and i ll tell you and for a great time call the hard wired bbs at this will be the location where the pool standings will be displayed internet users to contact denis papp just email dpapp muskwa ucs ualberta ca standings will be distributed by email as well
rec.sport.hockey	re leafs what happened hi guys what happened potvin didn t let six goals by wendel and andreychuk woke up home ice and lots of yelling in the gardens gave the leafs the emotional edge refs calls especially last night tended to favour leafs a couple of comments on gilmour just because the guy isn t one of the three stars doesn t mean he was not leading the team someone posted the playoff point total and he s in something like fifth or sixth place plus he walked away with the molson cup given for accumulating points from the three star selection during the regular season on the officiating i ve heard gripes from both ends on this one emotions are very high in this series the rivalry is one of the stronger ones i know of i do have to agree that the officiating last night was pro leaf in general except for whoever missed that slash on gilmour s hand in general i still think detroit has one of the better chances vs pittsburgh though i think the leafs would do better against the blues but not as well if they made it out of the division problem is i like both these teams though i m supporting the leafs on the underdog principle d by the way gilmour tiring out is a lot like bob probert not playing aggressive hockey by the way i m not any sort of expert nor do i claim to be i just like watching a good matchup tee hee hee ooops susan
rec.sport.hockey	re more hart trophy stuff in apr adobe com snichols adobe com sherri nichols writes in article apr mtroyal ab ca caldwell mtroyal ab ca writes the hart trophy goes to the player most valuable to his team not to the best player in the league so your above arguement is really worthless personally i always thought that most valuable to his team was silly why should the best player in the league be penalized because he plays on a team with other good players why should a lesser player be picked solely because he s the best player on a weak team wouldn t the weaker team be helped even more by the best player in the league doesn t the presence of the best player in the league make the other players on the team look better too the hart trophy was orginally awarded in a time where people did not think in terms of who was the best player rather in terms of who was the most valuable to the team and valuable to his team was not and should not be considered synonymous with best we are talking about a time when honour and attitude not measurable skills were the most important assets a player brought to his team his league and his sport this was before the onslaught of professionalism which has clearly denigrated what was formerly the foremost peacetime pursuit of glory the hart trophy is not a prize it is an honour cordially as always maynard ramsey cs laurentian ca so many morons rm and so little time
rec.sport.hockey	re blues sweep hawks while i will first congratulate the blues for their victory i think it must be realized that the primary reason the blues were able to win was curtis joseph when a goalkeeper gets hot there is little an opposing team can do joseph should be given the entire city of st louis because otherwise there would probably be a game scheduled as for the game on sunday the blues caught a few breaks without a doubt one was the referee constantly watching the blackhawks looking for reasons to give them penalties second the blues first goal resulted because the puck hit the linesman as the blackhawks attempted to clear no linesman no shot for brett i can redirect anything hull to redirect on another of st louis goals belfour was tripped from behind as he went to make the save by someone who didn t belong in the crease which means it was a st louis player finally the overtime goal was caused because someone kept belfour from getting back to the crease no goalie no way to stop the shot i congratulate st louis for beating the hawks it will be a shame to see bryan murray finally advance to the campbell conference finals because joseph won t be able to stop the powerful red wing attack the world reknown jason boskey mail bosk uiuc edu known throughout the world as the bosk christ you know it ain t easy all rights reserved all lefts enhanced you know how hard it can be the way things are goin here they come spinning out of the turn they re gonna crucify me
rec.sport.hockey	team pool standings standings reflecting completed series in round participant points final roland behunin cal que que dave wessels van pit pit barfly tor bos tor dean s det pit pit oz lak bos lak garry tor bos bos brian bergman det pit det mopar muscle men chi pit pit bh s last place picks chi pit pit milton keynes kings det pit pit sam his dogs det pit pit ye ding det pit pit tampere stars chi pit pit the mighty hedgehogs of myllyp chi bos bos homesick hawaiian van pit pit killer kings chi was chi puggy greybeards det pit pit ottawa bearcats tor pit tor andrew kirk tor pit pit muller n walker det pit pit excalibur det pit pit rednecks from hockey hell det bos bos the rangers of chi pit pit jeff phelps det pit pit arctic circles det pit pit sludge det pit det the logistician det pit det hillside raiders chi bos bos danielle chi que que stanias stars chi bos bos bloodhook det pit pit gilles carmel chi pit pit pasi fr nti lak pit pit evan pritchard van pit pit skriko wolves det pit pit rangers blow cal pit pit sean det pit pit schott shooters chi pit pit gary shiff tor pit pit mike burger det pit det darse det pit pit mike burger my canada includes quebec ontario mmb lamar colostate edu the maritimes the prairies and florida a beginning computing ta stud four months a year over students served royal canadian air farce university of michigan colorado state university
rec.sport.hockey	re wc finland in apr math ucla edu dstein oak math ucla edu david stein writes jarkko ketolainen writes disaster finland was beaten by czech finland will be th of pool b and will most certainly meet canada in the quarter final on wednesday th look at the situation positively the finns can now kick canada out they did last world cup and eventually lost tp sweden in the final peter
rec.sport.hockey	re wings news and playoff thoughts in article apr mtu edu kcsmith mtu edu smith writes i don t think he s shown that he s good enough to carry detroit to the cup the team may be good enough to reach the finals but cheveldae is their achilles heel you must have goaltending in the playoffs and cheveldae looks like an overmatched nd or rd stringer which he probably i guess i don t know of too many nd or rd string goalies that could post over wins in a season chevy has done that the past two seasons playing behind a defense that is not exactly the best in the league his wins this year were not all against toronto and for those who look at vincent rien stats and think he should be starting take a look at the teams he played against teams like san jose ottawa and tb any nhl goalie could post a decent record playing teams like that night in and night out is look for detroit management to remedy the situation in the offseason i really don t see this happening if they didn t think cheveldae could do the job they would of traded for somebody this year after all why wait until next year when there were goalies available this year hey i may be wrong but after watching him kick rebound after rebound into the high slot i don t think he can carry them in the tough games i e those not against toronto better to kick out rebounds than to let goals in if st louis gets past chicago watch for joseph to carry the blues past an otherwise vastly superior red wings club joseph is hot but so are the wings they have scored six goals in both of their games so far with toronto supposively one of the leagues best defenses i guess if they end up playing for the norris title we ll see what happens dr d the devils advocate drinkin women guns don t mix v p nk ubvms cc buffalo edu awkorbut acsu buffalo edu mark arm kcs wings in or hopefully by as far as cheveldae is concerned he is a decent goalie the most logical trade in the offseason to me would be between detroit and ny rangers i m sure if beezer would be traded he would enjoy the opportunity to go back to his roots in detroit he would be a valuable asset to the wings and perhaps the rangers could get a zombo in return beezer got a few good years in him and the opportunity to get a fresh start would energize his play
rec.sport.hockey	hawks lose yawn on april maynard ramsey cs laurentian ca roger maynard wrote m m look for the leafs led by a healthy doug gilmour and a confidence restored m felix potvin to do the blues in the leafs will have more games with the m wings and that should give joseph a few extra days to pass those horshoes m ha roger the dodger is back on the bandwagon that is jack please tell me if you don t get this message rosereader p entered at rose rosemail rosenet usenet gateway rose media
rec.sport.hockey	montreal versue quebec did anyone see the montreal quebec game yesterday it was tight right down to the last second of the third period in the overtime roy and hextall played like they were gods ok so montreal won they deserved it after getting their first goal in overtime waved off because the puck was hit in with a high stick their second goal in overtime was also replayed but i could not tell if it was the montreal player who kicked it in the puck definitely was not directed in by a stick anyways montreal is back into the series dave vergolini michigan state university vergolin euler lbs msu edu
rec.sport.hockey	re where are all the bruins fans in article rap psuvm psu edu robbie po rap psuvm psu edu writes i m just wondering where all the bruins fans are i mean they woofed it up with about posts during the regular season saying that their fave team was going to kick everyone s in the playoffs and win the stanley cup while i see nothing wrong with a little ranting and raving i m just curious why all the boston faithful have stopped posting i mean i haven t even see just one little boston fan post cept for the bruins fans that aren t cocky well maybe they re all out on the golf course or something but i don t know i d sure like to see where all those bruins fans are at robbie po s streakers we do what comes naturally patrick division semi s pgh penguins you see now wait for the penguins devils stanley possibility don t you see a penguins lead cup champions strong resemblance dg here in the middle of connecticut there are plenty of bruin fans many who have let me know in no uncertain terms that the rangers choked down the stretch i think the bruins are doing the same exact thing the rangers did they re playing too tight who s responsibility is it to check mogilny he has gotten off a number of quality shots on goal of which there are many rebounds which are not being cleared by the b s defense it s too bad the b s might not get the opportunity to play pittsburgh again i would really enjoy seeing ulfie get beat up by neely we all hate ulfie but would love him on are team
rec.sport.hockey	usenet hockey draft winning team regular season i was asked to post the team log of this year s winning team in the regular season draft here tis begin dave wessels reading team dave wessels from database log all team log name team points value bought week sold week trevor linden van pre cliff ronning van pre robert reichel cgy pre pat verbeek hfd pre pat falloon sj pre john maclean nj pre eric lindros phi pre rick tocchet pit pre greg adams van pre mike ricci que pre joe juneau bos pre kevin hatcher wsh pre teemu selanne wpg pre pavel bure van pre dixon ward van pre russ courtnall min darren turcotte nyr christian ruuttu chi petr nedved van petr klima edm tony granato la steve duchesne que alexander mogilny buf ray sheppard det steve larmer chi vincent damphousse mtl tony amonte nyr brendan shanahan stl corey millen la johan garpenlov sj kelly kisio sj pat elynuik wsh benoit hogue nyi pat flatley nyi rod brind amour phi michal pivonka wsh joe mullen pit john cullen tor stephane richer nj jeff norton nyi glenn anderson tor ray bourque bos bernie nicholls nj andrew cassels hfd dmitri kvartalnov bos tomas sandstrom la joe sakic que rob blake la derek king nyi michel goulet chi mike modano min dmitri khristich wsh alexander semak nj nikolai borschevsky tor mike donnelly la jeff brown stl thomas steen wpg kevin dineen phi mario lemieux pit wayne gretzky la you have cash points as of week your team is placed of teams andrew scott andrew idacom hp com hp idacom telecom operation ext during the roman era was considered old
rec.sport.hockey	re blues sweep blackhawks in article rap psuvm psu edu robbie po rap psuvm psu edu says michael virata sy says michael sy mvs cec wustl edu devils consultant and how bout those devils over the penguins hahahahahahah attention all penguins fans if the pens win game show some laughter in that e mail box address listed above thanks attention penguins fans once again apparently of you understand that this was just a joke hence the next to it but one idiot on here doesn t as he got pissed at me and sent me two hate e mails telling me that this is wrong i have no intentions of sending e mail to anyone should the pens win tonight and i really do not expect do not intend to lead any of you to send this poster e mail either it was not a serious request if you didn t know that which you probably did then don t do it thanks robbie po s streakers we do what comes naturally patrick division semi s pgh penguins you see now wait for the devils penguins stanley possibility don t you see a penguins lead cup champions strong resemblance dg
rec.sport.hockey	re caps postseason fortunes in article rhddoinn l jhunix hcf jhu edu admiral jhunix hcf jhu edu steve c liu says okay the caps again are about to break out the golf clubs but before they do does anyone have the history of the washington capitals futility record in the playoffs i remember that terry s first year was the first don t give up so soon a lot of burgh fans didn t give up at last year you gotta believe hard as that may seem with the caps with the power play in the playoffs and penalty killing according to mike lange all the caps have to do is make sure it doesn t go ot as that was boston s and chicago s demise ot can be a curse
rec.sport.hockey	re where are all the bruins fans good point there haven t even been any recent posts about ulf secretly i m convinced that he s responsible for the bs being down to buffalo somehow
rec.sport.hockey	buffalo sabres ok buffalo fans i am a red wings fan but am amazed at how the sabres are beating up on the bruins is there any reason for this is it grant fuhr or mogilny and lafontaine i would like to hear from you since i do not know much about the sabres dave vergolini michigan state university vergolin euler lbs msu edu
rec.sport.hockey	re cbc canadian for espn in article c tef c cs dal ca reiniger ug cs dal ca darren reiniger says i d like to echo these sentiments this is the worst coverage i can ever remember seeing on cbc as soon as the game ends i can count to and by that time they ve signed off the air no post game interviews no updating of late scores nothin tsn is really putting cbc to shame i only hope the later round coverage improves i mean who really wants to see cbc primetime news instead of hockey my darren this was a concession to mansbridge and cbc news they argued that if you re going to play havoc with the schedule you should at least make sure that prime time is aired as soon as possible news got a commitment that the post game show would be scrapped and that the network would go to ptn within one minute or so of the game ending as for the earlier comments about cbc being ontariocentric frankly the no doubleheader decison goes both ways people in the west cant see the leafs and people in central canada can t see the jets game the reason for the decision was cbc s feeling they couldn t sell advertising for six hours of hockey in one night as for who wants to see news over hockey a lot of people cbc always gets plenty of complaints about juggling the news schedule darren reiniger reiniger ug cs dal ca arishem ac dal ca centre for marine geology dalhousie university halifax n s canada people who wonder where this generation is going should remind themselves where it came from in the first place
rec.sport.hockey	real fans there was a discussion about how real fans were ones who respect their teams no matter ow bad they are that s bullshit anyone who would follow the pens or the pirates in parts of the early eighties on a devoted basis are losers it s ok to follow and be concerned about your home team but to give them respect even when it is clear the management and the players suck should not be required of a true fan a true fan would follow the team in troubled times to the extent that they could discuss how to improve the team when i visit pittsburgh i ll refuse to go to a pirates game since i think the management has given pittsburgh a team which could have been much better even if they couldn t sign barry bonds lert s say the pens start doing to their own team what the oilers have done this year and what the whalers have done in recent years i would be hard pressed to show much enthusiasm for the team i ll still follow it and bitch about it but i won t waste my money on mediocre teams p ravin ratnam
rec.sport.hockey	re winnipeg vs vancouver david downie dave downie commerce ubc ca wrote speaking of paddock what s he doing slagging sandlak if sandlak puts his mind to it he can be a physical presence and waking him up might be a real mistake isn t sandbag out with an injury now anyways perhaps paddock meant to say that momesso was the cheap short artist after all that would make more sense wpg in umward ccu umanitoba ca computer science u of manitoba
rec.sport.hockey	re nhl letter if you wanted to send your own letter to the nhl where would you send it brett e ball
rec.sport.hockey	re winnipeg vs vancouver in article g o ccu umanitoba ca umturne ccu umanitoba ca daryl turner writes oh yeah and i can go to the arena and see not one not two but six championship banners hanging from the rafters stanley cup banners and avco cup banners my nhl guide says that vancouver has won the cup once as many times as the rockin town of kenora has won it don t let this confuse anybody the winnipeg jets have never won the stanley cup or even come that close these stanley cup championships go back a long way to about the turn of the century the winnipeg victorias won one or more of these cups the jets didn t win any of them can you think of anything more irrelevant to argue about a playoff series going on today than who won more stanley cups around the turn of the century lets face facts the canucks are leading the series the canucks dominated the jets in their season series the canucks did better in the regular season than winnipeg who is the better team i think that the facts show that vancouver is better than winnipeg gregmeister
rec.sport.hockey	re the amazin isles watch out pitsburgh here come the isles they said we wouldn t make the playoffs and we came in third they said the caps would beat us and they re not going to they say that pitsburgh has a ratio of winning the cup but we ll prove them wrong l e t s g o i s l a n d e r s bring it back home
rec.sport.hockey	re don cherry new pens annoucer lli cs cmu edu lori iannamico writes in an article published in this morning s pittsburgh post gazette kbl the pgh cable sports channel president bill craig has confirmed that he has had preliminary talks with the mouth of the north don cherry craig said he is interested in hiring cherry as color commentator and for post game duties others being considered for the open broadcasting jobs are current pens announcers mike lange and paul steigerwald craig spoke to both yesterday kbl s stan savaran and guy junker espn s mike emrick mn broadcaster doug mccloud and tsn s jim hughson kbl and the penguins have just inked a new deal giving kbl all tv and radio rights to pens games plans are that kbl would like to have an entire night of hockey starting with a pre game show and running to a post game show that would sign off about depending upon length of the game don cherry announcing penguins games yeah and to quote pgh s goofy mayor i m the queen of sheba considering how often and how badly he has slammed the pens on coach s corner on hockey night in canada it would surprise me as well but then people will do anything for money won t they lori contact for the penguins lli cs cmu edu randy
rec.sport.hockey	re wings will win gballent vancouver uvic ca greg ballentine writes in article orasis vis toronto edu bdown vis toronto edu brian down writes stuff deleted for example look at pat quinn of the canucks i am not saying that he is the best gm merely a better one than murray and one i am very familiar with he traded garth butcher a good player and dan quinn not in the nhl anymore to st louis for cliff ronning geoff courtnall sergio mommesso and robert dirk too good to be true right i think this goes along with a comment you made in an earlier post namely quinn taking advantage of a major league bonehead for a gm in st louis this trade was an absolutely stupid trade for st louis and it was not the only stupid trade that this guy made we can give quinn credit for being an opportunist here stuff about other trades deleted plus his team has improved a much greater amount than detroit since he took over with them how do you figure both vancouver and detroit did the same thing last year they both won their division they had close to the same number of points they both went down in the first round of the playoffs before finally escaping in games and they both got knocked out in the second round by teams they should have been able to beat with less talent specifically if i remember correctly third place teams how does this make vancouver more improved further if i m not mistaken the wings had more points than vancouver at the end of this season albeit not many gregmeister randy
rec.sport.hockey	re if oilers go to hamilton in article apr spang camosun bc ca ua freenet victoria bc ca tom moffat says if the oilers move to hamilton what division will they play in and won t they have to change their name to the steelers or something the only significant deposits of oil around hamilton are those caused by the tire fire a few years back then again if the nba can have the utah jazz or the l a lakers think about it what lakes are in l a then i guess the nhl can have the hamilton oilers
rec.sport.hockey	senators sign top draft picks reports in ottawa today say that the senators have come to a verbal agreement with last seasons first pick and nd overall choice alexei yashin on a year deal as well the senators have signed their second round pick chad penney who is currently playing for the sault ste marie greyhounds in the ontario junior league playoffs mike d amico bnr ottawa ontario
rec.sport.hockey	re stewart homered the wings in andy bgsu edu m bgsu edu andy bgsu edu ryan writes paul stewart called the single worst game i ve seen this year federov s major was obvious and i don t dispute it however chaisson s penalty shouldn t even have been a penalty let alone a major and a game misconduct i don t notice refs and linesmen until the playoffs come around and yes i have to agree that stewart called the two worst games i ve seen so far mtl quebec game and last nights toronto detroit game what s the scoop on this guy is he the latest incarnation of kerry fraser just because you are boneheadedly stubborn doesn t make you a good ref making the right call does my votes for best ref van hellemond most improved koharski worst paul stewart oops i don t really want to start a best worst ref thread so don t follow up paul yatrou
rec.sport.hockey	re don cherry new pens annoucer kbl and the penguins have just inked a new deal giving kbl all tv and radio rights to pens games plans are that kbl would like to have an entire night of hockey starting with a pre game show and running to a post game show that would sign off about depending upon length of the game don cherry announcing penguins games yeah and to quote pgh s goofy mayor i m the queen of sheba lori contact for the penguins lli cs cmu edu well i was watching hockey hotline last night and stan said that the station kbl had been recieving calls all day concerning this subject and the verdict was that almost exclusively nobody wanted that load mouth know it all blow hard former bruin whiner ulf hating scum sucking pr ck of missery in pittsburgh on a permanent basis that s not exactly what stan said i did do a bit of interpriting the cmu kiddie
rec.sport.hockey	re nhl letter quite long obnoxious name calling deleted ok who wants rm off of here i say we get his net privleges revoked any seconds go skins now for the next question does emotional music have quite go braves an effect on you mike patton faith no more go hornets go capitals mike friedman hrivnak fan internet gtd a prism gatech edu
rec.sport.hockey	re nhl letter quite long roger shut up thank you go skins now for the next question does emotional music have quite go braves an effect on you mike patton faith no more go hornets go capitals mike friedman hrivnak fan internet gtd a prism gatech edu
rec.sport.hockey	minnesota shame sh i m a hockey fan from way back and maintain an interest as best i can here in the hockey hinterlands oklahoma i m hoping i can get a reading from some of you about the move of the north stars to dallas sh i ve been under the impression that minnesota was one of or possibly the hockey state in the u s so why is the team moving to a city in texas is it that the owner is a greedy self serving profiteer or were the stars really not making a profit or was the city or whoever owned the arena doing some price gouging sh as much as i d like to see the nhl only a hour drive from me i can t help but feel for the people in minnesota unless they truly didn t support the team sh opinions please i used to work for the stars minnesota supported the team to an extent when i was there we had quite afew sellouts this was the season after the cup run and during the finals norm s main bitch was that there wasn t enough luxury suites and the ones he had were not always full he wanted more boxes and wanted them full he was just asking for too much from people that could go and see other hockey games at high schools for or college for about that would probably be better mark qmpro radioactive cats are very very hot origin origin line not defined in goedit
rec.sport.hockey	springfield indians ahl office here is something crossposted from the ahl mailing list in a discussion between me and chris lerch the subject of springfield s st round upset of the providence bruins came up chris basically raised the possibility that the ahl hierarchy is biased in favor of the indians he noted that the offices for the league are in spring and many ex indians are working for the ahl furthermore he also informed me that back a few years ago in the cup finals between roch and spring that the amerks charged favoritism by the office and that there were little questionable things liket he ahl president and staff attending all games with the springfield brass including sitting in their box for the game in springfield and according to the rochester media openly cheering for springfield certainly this is something that is quite serious if any of this is true i don t know if this is anything more than whining on the part of the amerks they have pulled this sort of crap against the wings before but if true this is somthing that seriously raises questions about president jack butterfield s leadership btw this was posted with the permission of chris bri farenell farenebt craft camp clarkson edu ahl ecac and boston bruins contact for rec sport hockey adirondack red wings calder cup champs clarkson hockey ecac tournament champs glens falls high hockey ny division ii state champs ahl fans join the ahl mailing list ahl news request andrew cmu edu
rec.sport.hockey	wash isl ot game this comes indirectly from al morgani who works in the studio for espn hockey the management of espn was reluctant to leave the pitt nj game even though the outcome was certain because of fear of the wash ny game going to overtime when the caps scored with left to tie the game al said he heard many people say f k espn is under contractual obligation to show baseball and could not broadcast the ot of the hockey game next year espn will be introduced so baseball fans can watch baseball and hockey fans can watch hockey get off espn s back and stop posting articles on this subject there have been to many f n complainers about this game that it s making me sick geoff filinuk
rec.sport.hockey	wc pool a italy sweden w d l canada sweden russia italy austria switzerland
rec.sport.hockey	re nhl letter quite long in article apr sol ctr columbia edu phoenix startide ctr columbia edu ali lemer writes ali procrastination lemer i gave nhl commissioner gary bettman a puck columbia university nyc once he spent the rest of the day trying to phoenix ctr columbia edu open it pat williams gm orlando magic be kind to animals hug a hockey player nice sig like the change btw could you post the names of the people who are going to be on the letter i and i m sure others would like to know if we are included if i m not i want to be roger is a fool go skins now for the next question does emotional music have quite go braves an effect on you mike patton faith no more go hornets go capitals mike friedman hrivnak fan internet gtd a prism gatech edu
rec.sport.hockey	re switzerland at wc in article apr vms huji ac il hechel vms huji ac il writes does anybody know if this wc is the qualification tournement for the olympic games in lillehammer or are some teams already qualified for them hopp schwiiz daniel the top teams of this tournament will play in the olympics next year the last team of this tournament top two of pool b great britain and poland and the winner of pool c latvia will play for the last olympic spot next fall however if next year s hosts norway were to finish th which would be no surprise then it s the th team of pool a that will have to play in the qualification tournament marko tervio
rec.sport.hockey	re caps moving why would pollin want to move the caps because i think he owns the cap centre i know they don t sell out all of their games but they draw a lot more than the bullets if you had the situation that abe had would you move if you were guaranteed that anyone who went to the games would have to park at the stadium because there has been nothing within a half mile until the recent construction in the area can they win a game in ot again rich you ve read the hat now see the movie imus in the morning a blurb you re a blurb seinfeld
rec.sport.hockey	re buffalo boston defense in article bson apr nutrimat gnu ai mit edu bson gnu ai mit edu jan brittenson writes which doesn t mean much since the statistics are mostly based on the game playoff format but yes it looks dark for the b s what a disappointment the fat lady is about to hit the first note okay how about deficits the b s chances for a comeback are now less that s based on game playoff format who do you think gets the start in game three i hope it is going to be blue if the team can rally around him maybe moog can too he got the start but the headlines on all boston local tv sportscats said it all sutter blue it and he did harry sinden s appearance outside of b s dressing room after game was a pathetic site he said something really retarded to cover sutter s behind this game is not about winning or losing harry check the schedule your team is in the playoffs and about to go on a long summer vacation on sunday morning harry and his buttkisser milbury will never admit that they screwed up in a major way when they brought in one of the dumbest people in the business brian sutter sutter s playoff record as the head coach in st louis speaks for itself the blues really have a chance to advance to the second round this year ppv mark
rec.sport.hockey	re regular season pool this is what i came up with using the final regular season stats for the which you can find in the april edition of the usa today try it out and see what you come up with adam oates c bruins pts teemu selanne rw jets pts alexander mogilny rw sabres pts pavel bure rw canucks pts vincent damphousse lw canadians pts dave andreychuk lw mapleleafs pts phil housley rd jets pts paul coffey rd redwings pts sergei fedorov c redwings pts andy moog g bruins pts al infrate rd capitials pts patrick roy g canadians pts al macinnis ld flames pts dennis savard c canadians pts calle johansson ld capitals pts yuri khmylev lw sabres pts richard smehlik ld sabres pts total points pts most valuable player adam oates rookie of the year teemu selanne most improved player vincent damphousse defenseman of the year phil housley goalie of the year patrick roy
rec.sport.hockey	re another travesty at the joe louis in article apr mtroyal ab ca caldwell mtroyal ab ca writes detroit april most knowledgable observers once again watched in shock as the detroit red wings again beat the best goaltender in the world six times en route to another easy victory over the best team in the nhl for the best goaltender in the world felix potvin six was a bad number as he surrendered six goals and collected six minutes in penalties in reponse to the goon tactics employed by the inferior red wings team alan p s we told you this would happen roger didn t we i love it where is roger anyway haven t heard from him in awhile he must be out on the golf course waiting for the leafs to join him any day now laurie marshall wayne state university detroit michigan go wings
rec.sport.hockey	re wings news and playoff thoughts roots in detroit he would be a valuable asset to the wings and perhaps the rangers could get a zombo in return wake up and smell the norris rick zombo was traded to the blues for vince riendo sp last season mike
rec.sport.hockey	re wings news and playoff thoughts as far as cheveldae is concerned he is a decent goalie the most logical trade in the offseason to me would be between detroit and ny rangers i m sure if beezer would be traded he would enjoy the opportunity to go back to his roots in detroit he would be a valuable asset to the wings and perhaps the rangers could get a zombo in return beezer got a few good years in him and the opportunity to get a fresh start would energize his play only problem is that zombo was traded to st louis last year for goalie vincent riendeau i think that while chevy is not among the elite class of goalies he is adequate given the offensive firepower of the wings greg
rec.sport.hockey	re hey what about teh cannucks grogers slacvx slac stanford edu greg rogers writes hi all due to living in the bay area i as unable to see vancouver s victory over the jets last night i know the score but that rarely describes the game could someone please post a brief sonapsis sp of waht happened how well did each team play were the cannucks deserving of the victory well in my opinion the canucks played a really strong game i was especially pleased by a very strong game from linden i think he could be a key to success for them this year defensively they really had a strong game hardly heard selanne s name all night craven also played one of his best games since coming over with a few exceptions they really didn t let the high flying jets do much high flying i thought the jets defence looked overmatched by the canucks forwards they will have to improve on that if they want to make this a series in short it was a great start chris roney e mail chris roney sfu ca
rec.sport.hockey	canucks over winnipeg the jets gave the canucks another run for their money in an almost identical game to the first of the series but once again came up short as vancouver outscored winnipeg the pattern of the first game was repeated tonight with the canucks scoring quickly and then going to sleep in the second period only to stave off a jet comeback with opportune goals from their greater talent the jets looked more dangerous in this one but it didn t make a difference in the numbers that counted goals vancouver s big line produced again with centre cliff ronning and left winger geoff courtnall scoring in the first and in the second to boost the canucks to a lead on giveaways by the suspect jet defence of bautin and ulanov mental lapses by the defence and goal scoring talent in opportune areas made the difference in all three canuck goals however as in the first game the jets worked hard to take the game to the canucks in the second period the jets dominated the second checking hard and penetrating the vancouver zone without being challenged by a canuck team that wanted to pack it in early the hard work paid off late in the second when tie domi caught vancouver goalie kirk mclean by surprise with a sharp angle shot to make the score domi s goal gave the jets new life as they began to take the rush to the canuck s collapsing defence the canucks were unwilling to do anything but let mclean take shots and clear the rebounds the jets were allowed to set up and make plays both goalies made standup saves as the play picked up considerably mclean made three great saves in the second off a dancing teammu selanne while essensa was rocked by a pavel bure drive selanne looked dangerous on the rush as the jets pressed a series of attacks into the canuck zone the canucks on the other hand looked like they were offering four checking lines in an effort to preserve their slim lead a series of minor penalties at the end of the second period resulted in a one man advantage for the jets in the early third the jet s tempo numminen drove a puck from the point through mclean s legs and into the net to tie the game at the canuck s discordant play picked up where it left off this was characterized by long lead passes that either never connected or were picked off by the jets and individual rushes into a tight winnipeg defence that were never supported however as in the first and second canuck goals a jet defensive lapse re bonehead play stalled the winnipeg comeback with the faceoff in the winnipeg zone pavel bure was left to stand in the crease with no jet defender anywhere near him bure who had been invisible in the game up to that point took a rebound and managed to roof it with a backhand even though he was off balance by then it was too late for the jets to come back essensa made it to the bench with one minute to go but the extra attacker did nothing for their attack canucks winnipeg next game is friday at winnipeg with the jets in the hole by two games
rec.sport.hockey	re nhl letter quite long in article apr ramsey cs laurentian ca maynard ramsey cs laurentian ca roger maynard writes in apr sol ctr columbia edu phoenix startide ctr columbia edu ali lemer writes dear mr bettman ali s letter deleted for brevity roger s acid laced response removed maybe we should get together and establish some kind of mandatory maturity level to keep some of this stuff off of the air roger your responses might just exclude you from sharing your opinions then you see the same rights ali has to mail her letter to the nhl are the same ones that let you post replies that mow her down like wheat at harvest time she never said she represented the entire internet or the entire group rec sport hockey she has every right to state her opinion along with those of the fifty or sixty or hundred odd folk who ve agreed to allow her to list their names on the bottom of it you may not agree with it fine i really don t care enough about the name change to care your name isn t attached to it so why moan and complain if you felt her words were leading well you re free to feel that way and take exception but manners never hurt i personally disagree and feel her generalizations were fine i have the right to think and say that too ali s under no compunction to change a single word now while you re free to disagree with every word she wrote to tear apart her character is uncalled for i m posting this as a form of public reprimand if you tear down ali s integrity and character publicly you ll get chastised publicly in return would it have been so hard to say ali please be a bit more specific in your description the way i ve read it indicates you re stating my view also and that s simply not true i d really like to see a disclaimer noting that you don t mean the entire internet or the entire r s h group attached to it despite your intent to list names at the bottom thanks cordially as always c calling her a moron and an asshole just reduces the weight of your words and the opinions of their author in the eyes of myself and possibly others oh and ali nice to see someone standing up for something even if it s not something i personally advocate valerie hammerl john sr would lift pat over the boards grab hammerl acsu buffalo edu his hand and start running around the outside v pwpz ubvms cc buffalo edu faster and faster i wanted to learn how to get that feeling and the only way was to learn how to skate p lafontaine
